"WINDSTORM"

The windstorm came on suddenly,
slamming doors and howling
in the chimney - 
I heard the boxes we had unpacked
move against each other outside. 
I went out and felt the beast
in my hair, forcing itself into my lungs,
whipping away sheets
of packing paper. 
At first I thought I should pick up
what I could,
but then I realized I was tired,
the problem would still be there
in the morning -
so I let that paper fly.


"SEASONS CHANGE, SOME THINGS DON'T"

christmas this year brought such fragile sparkle to the land
and i lost myself in tire tracks, train headlights and swan hands
doorbells rang, the lights went out
i almost shouted- i can't make it through
but it snowed, and i thought of you 

now it's all sky shifts
subtle and immense
looking down, mid-july
there's no sense, there's no rhyme
and i can't explain.
there are flakes of frost clinging to the pane
the seasons change, the seasons change
the seasons change, but some things never do
i still think of you .

planes just rise, we touch the space
where winter never dies, and i still know your face
it's so cold up here that i think of land
'cause when it snowed, i just held your hand 

seasons change, but some things never do
i still think of you.


"SHRIKE"

I couldn't utter my love when it counted Ah, but I'm singing like a bird 'bout it now I couldn't whisper when you needed it shouted Ah, but I'm singing like a bird 'bout it now The words hung above But never would form Like a cry at the final Breath that is drawn Remember me, love When I'm reborn As the shrike to your sharp And glorious thorn And I'd no idea on what ground I was founded All of that goodness is goin' with you now Then when I met you, my virtues uncounted All of my goodness is goin' with you now Dragging along Following your form Hung like the pelt Of some prey you had worn Remember me, love When I'm reborn As a shrike to your sharp And glorious thorn I fled to the city with so much discounted Ah, but I'm flying like a bird to you now Back to the hedgerows where bodies are mounted Ah, but I'm flying like a bird to you now I was housed by your warmth Thus transformed By you're grounded and giving And darkening scorn Remember me, love When I'm reborn As a shrike to your sharp And glorious thorn


"FRESH AIR"

Your hefty hair 
     a burden to convention.
Your baggy indigo jeans 
sink below the standards of 
good looks.
Your unaware disposition, 
misplaced 
speech make you appear 
anachronous, 
but to me
     to me, you appear 
as simply as the first spring does
     reviving the wilting yellow
flowers of winter


"FIXING"

there’s a procession of hope at the tabernacle of what i call my ancestral 
rites. i wonder if this is how a song dissolves from the rhythm of its 
true purpose, its cadence, everything that makes it music. i wonder if 
it takes god to scar a man, or if it takes a man to scar a man. whichever 
way it is, i find me unfixing myself from the spaces between fail and 
the suffix -ure. i find myself writing my name in all places i should have 
written success. i guess i needed it that bad. i looked into the mirror, and 
pictured my body matching with all the outlines of vanity. at the dead 
of the night, i capture all the silence of what keeps me down and turn 
it into a plethora of noisy roses. this is my ninja way. this is the opening 
of yin and yang on everything that holds up my chakra. & here, i blare 
the gongs of trouble up to keep the eyes of the world on me. i, might 
be a box of matches starting a fire. but i, am also the tears of the cloud 
ending it. 


"EXTRAORDINARY MACHINE"

I certainly haven't been shopping for any new shoes
And I certainly haven't been spreading myself around
I still only travel by foot and by foot it's a slow climb
But I'm good at being uncomfortable so
I can't stop changing all the time

I noticed that my opponent is always on the go
And won't go slow, so 's not to focus, and I notice
He'll hitch a ride with any guide, as long as
They go fast from whence he came
But he's no good at being uncomfortable, so
He can't stop staying exactly the same

If there was a better way to go then it would find me
I can't help it, the road just rolls out behind me
Be kind to me, or treat me mean
I'll make the most of it, I'm an extraordinary machine

I seem to you to seek a new disaster every day
You deem me due to clean my view and be at peace and lay
I mean to prove I mean to move in my own way and say
I've been getting along for long before you came into the play

I am the baby of the family, it happens
So, everybody cares and wears the sheep's clothes
While they chaperone
Curious, you looking down your nose at me, while you appease
Courteous, to try and help
But let me set your mind at ease

If there was a better way to go then it would find me
I can't help it, the road just rolls out behind me
Be kind to me, or treat me mean
I'll make the most of it, I'm an extraordinary machine

Do I so worry you, you need to hurry to my side?
It's very kind
But it's to no avail; and I don't want the bail
I promise you, everything will be just fine

If there was a better way to go then it would find me
I can't help it, the road just rolls out behind me
Be kind to me, or treat me mean
I'll make the most of it, I'm an extraordinary machine

If there was a better way to go then it would find me
I can't help it, the road just rolls out behind me
Be kind to me, or treat me mean
I'll make the most of it, I'm an extraordinary machine


"HYDRA"

Every breath is fire, your hunger
wraps its tentacles around your own face,
your hunger, your hunger,
so close to the surface. You are so hungry,
in the moonlight your hunger pushes
one tentacle into your face,
testing the depth, testing the resistance
as the fire grows in your lungs. A tentacle,
curious finger, ravenous finger, pushes
one tentacle into your face, 
this time a little pull, and you feel the outside
pressure. You let the hunger take you,
all the fingers, floating, wet,
break through your skin, tear your face,
let the water in, everything it contains,
you contain. You breathe, hold it – 
the hole in you disappears. The hunger waits.


"FUNERAL"

The presence of absence disperses like the aftermath of a forest fire no 
one could smother. A desperate char of ebony spreads over my sheets 
as I wake in the dead of winter. Grief has risen in me before the sun. My 
lover dreams whilst I abandon our bed to choose my mother’s grave.

Natural Burial Grounds are absent of headstones; our site faces the 
Preseli Mountains, the high peaks blurred by fog, unreachable but real.  
I point at the place beneath my feet, tell them to dig and they do. They 
dig with machines but I use my claws like the motherless animal I have 
become. The earth shape shifts to clay under my fingernails, the deeper 
I go the harder my unborn kicks my abdomen. I imagine the grief has set 
with her like a shadow cast by the sun.  

We transform the hole to tomb, adorn it with memories, a photograph, 
Evening Primrose, Amethyst and Magic Mushrooms. We leave no 
epitaph, only blades of grass with roots too shallow to reach my mother 
who is wrapped in two body bags,  the contents of her wicker coffin will 
have to wait a century to biodegrade, a century before the earth can 
love her bones. 


"NEVER IS A PROMISE"

You'll never see the courage I know
Its colors' richness won't appear within your view
I'll never glow the way that you glow
Your presence dominates the judgements made on you

But as the scenery grows, I see in different lights
The shades and shadows undulate in my perception
My feelings swell and stretch I see from greater heights
I understand what I am still too proud to mention to you

You'll say you understand, but you don't understand
You'll say you'd never give up seeing eye to eye
But "never" is a promise and you can't afford to lie

You'll never touch these things that I hold
The skin of my emotions lies beneath my own
You'll never feel the heat of this soul
My fever burns me deeper than I've ever shown to you

You'll say, "Don't fear your dreams, it's easier than it seems."
You'll say you'd never let me fall from hopes so high
But "never" is a promise and you can't afford to lie

You'll never live this life that I live
I'll never live the life that wakes me in the night
You'll never hear the message I give
You'll say it looks as though I might give up this fight

But as the scenery grows, I see in different lights
The shades and shadows undulate in my perception
My feelings swell and stretch, I see from greater heights
I realize what I am now too smart to mention to you

You'll say you understand, you'll never understand
I'll say I'll never wake up knowing how or why
I don't know what to believe in, you don't know who I am
You'll say I need appeasing when I start to cry
But "never" is a promise and I'll never need a lie


"CINNAMON BIRD"

My nest is spice and fire. Everybody wants 
the cinnamon. Out of reach 
on the sheer cliff of this apartment complex. 

There are so few trees in the city. Nobody remembers 
how I emerged from an egg,
naked and wingless, covered in bark. How I peeled
myself from myself by the skin of my teeth. Each bite 
burned, until I taught myself to swallow 
each ember, a charred mint,
bitter and sharp and, oh, 
how they soothed my butterflies. Nobody sees 
beneath the skin, how hard it was
to grow wings. The nerves built from gallium, 
always molten, contaminating everything 
that touches me. Contaminating everything I touch. How 
the oil-slick blood struggled 
to push raw skin where it wanted to go, 
where it is wanted. The feathers came from ash,
light as smoke, shrouding me 
in gray crystal and mystery. 

My nest is a product of molting. It is lived history – 
the cinnamon is mine, the cinnamon is safe, 
my home, where the sun catches the glass,
and everything is warm, and I can rest.


"WE CAN'T SWIM IN THE DARK"

You can’t love me. When you press your ear next to my heart, you’ll hear the swoosh of back history, dumpster mermaids and open hands. I recall the teeth of the night. No hot line for those marked with erroneous incisions. You still recite Marx from last semester and I still profess the world as my artificial limb. An arm that works like a fin. Not even. My words are clichés against your skin, borrowed from diverted divers, a whole Atlantis of lost head counts, when love was more expensive than crude oil under the sea. When I come apart in tiny rooms, under ceilings of asbestos and old paint, you’ll remember me through a straw. For awhile, you’ll bleed at a slow drip rate, not enough to disturb the neighbors. You won’t need goggles for the afternoon. You’ll learn to cope in increments of two. Cheat at solitaire in the afterglow. You’ll relearn to love yourself when the streets reflect patches of sky shaped like the islands in your eyes. You’ll nurse yourself when the albatross fly back.


"STARDUST" 

I conjured you up from stardust,
whispered you into existence
	from lullabies,
devoured galaxies, 
tasted skies 
 left them on your lips,
birthed universes on your tongue, 
entangled supernovas in the spaces 
between your fingers;
the spaces between what's left unsaid
    words: monologues of desires, 
    of pain – 
of pleasure
smothered,
enwrapped
in uneven gasps.
I touched you;
kissed your cheeks
your fingertips
	your navel, and you
you became a god.
My creation
worshipping at the altar of my skin;
tracing scriptures on my back
	engraving holy verses 
	on the insides of my thighs.
Kisses dripping like wax 
from worship candles
Dripping 
Dripping
On my forehead 
On my cheeks
Between my lips
Between my legs 
I conjured you up from stardust,
created you
to devour you.
Every edge,
every cliff
A little closer.
A little farther
Creating,
destroying 
between gasps,
between moans 
traversing lifetimes
within seconds.


"THE CITY"

The city has sex with itself I suppose As the concrete collides while the scenery grows And the lonely once bandaged lay fully exposed Having undressed their wounds for each other And there's a boy in a basement with a four track machine He's been strumming and screaming all night down there The tape hiss will cover the words that he sings But they say it's better to bury your sadness In a graveyard or garden that waits for the spring To awake from its sleep and burst into green Well, I've cried And you think I'd feel better for it But the sadness just sleeps And it stays in my spine For the rest of my life And I've learned And you'd think I'd be something more now But it just goes to show It is not what you know It's what you were thinking at the time This feeling's familiar, I've been here before In a kitchen this quiet I waited for A sign or just something That might reassure me of anything close To meaning or motion, with a reason to move I needed something I want to be close to And I scream But I still don't know why I do it Because the sound never stays, it just swells and decays So what is the point? Why try To fight what is now so certain? The truth is all that I am Is a passing event That will be forgotten


"THE TRAGEDY OF TOUCH"

We travelled billions of years
stardust 
    hydrogen, helium, carbon
to inhibit this bone cage,
this flesh chamber,
on a rotating globe
to never be able 
to truly embrace 
	to really hold
	to caress
elements 
ricocheting 
through lifetimes of innumerable stars
supernovas
I hug you,
hold you
	wrap my feet across your ankles
	entangle our fingers in the spaces between
	what is left unsaid
I’m still alone
    isolated – 
in an unfathomably tiny space
created by your electrons repelling my own
    repelling me
I’ll always just be 
	hovering
over everything that I love;
aloof
alone.


"JUNK BOND TRADER"

The imitation picks you up like a habit Writing in the glow of the TV's static Taking out the trash to the man Give the people something they'd understand A stick man flashing a fine-lined smile Junk bond trader trying to sell a sucker a stock Rich man in a poor man's clothes The permanent installment of the daily dose And you tell off when you tell it like it is Your world's no wider than your hatred of his Checking into a small reality Boring as a drug you take too regularly The athlete's laugh, the broken crutch The first true love that folded at the slightest touch Brought down like an old hotel People digging through the rubble for things they can resell Happy holidays, sad sick savior The leaving lover that I still favor I won't take your medicine I don't need a remedy To be everything I'm supposed to be I don't want nobody else I can do it by myself We're meant to be together Now I'm a policeman directing traffic Keeping everything moving, everything static I'm a hitchhiker you'll recognize passing On your way to some everlasting Better sell it while you can


"JUNIPER"

Juniper everywhere – 
in the prairie air pressed down 
into the earth, like something dead,
with the season’s sky 
sweet and sticky and humid,
swimming in a teacup. The opposite
of the constant green
dried in the sun, dry as a bone,
nothing to travel on
except the dream of preservation,
the smell of piss. A memory
from childhood, when every branch
still felt soft, 
and nothing dug into you forever.


"LIKE REAL PEOPLE DO"

I had a thought, dear However scary About that night The bugs and the dirt Why were you digging? What did you bury Before those hands pulled me From the earth? I will not ask you where you came from I will not ask you, neither should you Honey just put your sweet lips on my lips We should just kiss like real people do I knew that look dear Eyes always seeking Was there in someone That dug long ago So I will not ask you Why you were creeping In some sad way I already know I will not ask you where you came from I will not ask you and neither would you Honey just put your sweet lips on my lips We should just kiss like real people do


"FLOODLIGHTS"

Under evening floodlights, we could tell it was going to rain
by the smell in the air, the clouds closing in – 
the obvious signs. We ate hot dogs and drank Coke
before the panic attacks really began. We were talking,
laughing about growing up, children and fortunes,
strokes, hobbies, and forgetting. The smell of hot garbage
and how bee stings were the worst pain we knew. We joked 
about becoming Christmas card friends. It’s been decades,
and none of us know each other’s address. But I remember
sitting behind the home dugout when the sky broke
and the softball tournament got rained out, how we ran
together, too many of us, piled into one car. How
the windows fogged until we couldn’t see anything
except the dashboard, glowing minutes and each other. 


"HOLOGRAPHS"

HOLOGRAPHS 

I have been weighing the pros and cons of telling my family we probably don’t exist. I am drawing loops inside the nervous tangle of my chest, connecting what happened and what I saw in my sleep. 

The aurora borealis rising over a high ridge, the mirror of the sky in Bolivia’s salt flats, the pink sandstone temples of Petra, entire bodies passing through an ancient redwood, the conjunction of the moon and Saturn in the lens of my telescope. My youth circling the waves of a Belle and Sebastian album. The anarchy of bodies at a Bad Religion concert. Laughter of my children playing together. The pulse in my ears when my head hits the pillow. The compression of my knee brace. Steady weight of a cane in my hand. My fingers pulling the door of my first car open. The smell of a soap I can’t quite remember. A perfume my wife liked when we first got married. Wet iron weighing down my blood as I bite my tongue. 

What will happen to all these waveforms I’ve cradled in my neurons? What has happened to all the other waveforms I’ve been? When I go to bed, I wonder if this is what I will look like when I die. The air is pure gold when I wake up, and the lonely airplanes look like comets. I watch videos of icebergs turning over to calm myself down.


"NEVER EXHALE"

take away the paper moon
take away the words she shouted
take away the steering wheel
take away the times I doubted you

take away the double-paned
storm windows in your room
take away the april air
and how everything started to bloom around you

sometimes I think that it’s too soon to fall in love with sunshine
in a year I’m sure you will be out of sight but not out of mind
sometimes I want to pull the sky down to the ground
but now I just want to be around

take away sitting on a wall
fighting gravity tooth and nail
take it away and I will not fall, I said
I will just never exhale

that’s when I thought that if I didn’t try, i would not break
that’s when I thought even breathing was a fatal mistake
that’s when I kept my fractured heart low to the ground
and now I just wanna be around

take away the city street
take away the afternoon light
take away the subtle heartbeat
and the birds that explode into flight

from those power lines that as I gazed
you smiled and set my world ablaze
I watched the flames as they grew higher
I took a breath and caught on fire

and all the king’s hoses
and all the king’s firemen
couldn’t make me turn away again


"NOW MY FEET WON'T TOUCH THE GROUND"

Let me go, boys, let me go
Push my boat from the highest cliff to the sea below
Rocks are waiting, boys, if rocks await
Swoop down from the sky and catch me like a bird of prey
Now my feet won't touch the ground
Now my head won't stop
You wait a lifetime to be found
Now my feet won't touch the ground
Singing, now my feet won't touch the ground
Now my head won't stop
You wait a lifetime to be found
Now my feet won't touch the ground
Now my feet won't touch the ground


"DRIED LAVENDER"

We kept the lavender in the window, 
and kept bringing it glasses of water. 

What did we think 
was going to happen? What is the cure 
for too much of a good thing? Something
shining. We didn’t think about radiation 
when we carried the rigid, skeletal plant outside.

We treated the green 
until it was gray and crisp
like a spring morning. It never bloomed,
and nobody remembered 
what purple looked like.


"FALLING OF THE RAIN"

Once upon a time in the land of misty satin dreams there stood a house
And a man who painted nature scenes.
He painted trees
And fields and animals and streams
And he stayed and he didn’t hear the falling of the rain
No, he didn’t hear the falling of the rain

In the forest green lived a girl who put her hair in braids and she sang
As she walked all about the wooded glades.
She was glad when the rain came falling on her face
And she sang, ’cause she didn’t mind the falling of the rain
No, she didn’t mind the falling of the rain
Will it always be the same as we recall?
Does it touch you when the rain begins to fall?
Ah, but I don’t want to know and I don’t want to see
Another rainy day without you lying next to me, ah.

High upon a hill far away from the dusty crowd is a boy
With his eyes on the ground, his head is bowed.
He’s a fool and his mind is filled with hopeless dreams
And he waits, but he will not see the falling of the rain
No, he will not see the falling of the rain
Will it always be the same as we recall?
Does it touch you when the rain begins to fall?
Ah, but I don’t want to know and I don’t want to see
Another rainy day without you lying next to me, ah.

So now the boy becomes the man who sits and paints all day,
But the girl with the braids in her hair has gone away.
And it seems that time has brought things to an end.
Nothing’s changed, ’cause you can’t stop the falling of the rain,
Can’t stop the falling of the rain.


"THE HARDNESS OF THINGS"

When I was five years old, I remember,
I watched men on TV topple trees with only axes. I wondered
why my dad needed a steel wedge, hydraulics, a tractor
just to get firewood. It all burns the same. Anyway,
in my teens I was taught about the Mohs scale,
what was strong enough to scratch what, 
and the colors left behind. This was intended 
to make buying jewelry easier for everyone,
and everyone bought it. I am no exception,
I am every crack in the asphalt, chipped sidewalk,
calving glacier, fallen tree, trimmed lawn, 
the boulders dug from the fields to save the plow 
blades. In the dark I sink into memory foam. 
It never remembers me, but it always adjusts. Every day. 
When I wake up I’m still just figuring out 
the hardness of things. 


"WET BRICKS"

it rained for three days straight and i thought that i could articulate how it felt like i was drowning but i don't think any words i say could accurately convey how the water rose when i looked at you and how it took my breath away now the sun pours through the open window and i sit around, watch the sun go down, dressed up in january brown and sigh it's nothing less than everything we'll be you'd never guess how difficult it was to breathe chorus: i know it takes two to tango but we're evasively goose-stepping fox-trotting and regretting the way it's always two forward three back and this is getting nowhere i don't really care about the view this is getting nowhere and i am getting nowhere with you forgiveness felt like a sound bird in the moment when all the words failed and we stood in the traffic in the stillness and the sunlight in the grace after the storm in the concrete and the wet bricks and the open sky and the constant change and the rain, and the rain. the statues and the sidewalks and the way you took my breath away the weather and the streetsigns and the way you took my breath away


"GLASS"

The mind is a fragile thing.
I give you a glimpse
Of transparent thoughts,
But under the pressure
You exert,
The framework shatters.
You leave me 
With pieces that stick,
Shards that cut deep
And hurt more
Than the initial impact,
As I try to repair myself,
Like Humpty Dumpty
Putting himself back together—
So I discard those pieces
And forget about being whole again.


"EXTRA SPACE"

The language In the dimmer rooms Seems to represent its light source well How soft they speak And seem to be at peace With the movement of the music and the madness That's pulling me Into this And the shades of the lamps are woven red The light, it stains and consecrates Anointing all forgotten forms That swirl and smoke and haunt this place The girls in gowns all nurse the dark Pulling it near to their swelling breasts And watch as it seeps to their hearts And beats within their virgin chests And here I know seduction breeds From wanton hearts that would seduce And grows and spreads its vines and leaves Embracing those who might have moved But now remain to drink the night From vials black and thick with steam Such intoxicating delights Would leave you drunk inside this dream And you watch them take the light from you And you find yourself On a velvet couch Tasting the skin of a foreign girl Her eyes are black And wet like oil And she ties your hands with a string of pearls And you tremble like a frightened bird As she closes in and captures you To place you in a silver cage Deep within her poisoned womb And once you're safe inside She might let you out To fly In circles Around the room But it's always night And there is no moon And you wonder if you are alive And you're not sure if you want to be But you drink her sweat like it was wine And you lay with her On a bed of blue And it's awful sweet Like the fruit she cuts and feeds to you


"TELEPATHY"

It was always weird to me,
how we weren’t telepaths. How we live
in the same world in our own heads. Somehow we decided 
noise or lines on an impermanent surface weren’t inefficient,
they were enough. We could have everything we needed to
until we couldn’t. So we made music
and painted and put fur on plates and built weapons
and used weapons and wove clothes
and took off clothes and tore stones from the earth
and made trees into children and gave each other flowers
at the end of everything. Nobody understood
the minor languages inside all of us, 
nobody ever talked about it. I just put these lines on a page.


"THEATER"

Small fragments of the stage, embed themselves as shrapnel
in memory. Amorphous bodysuits pounding on PVC pipe
to form a rhythm to everything. We are on a submarine,
and it is burning. In this house, there are birds
having a secret meeting. They are talking about
what comes after this, as well as the first kiss
that brought the couple together. One climbed
down a ladder from a tree, one gave a speech,
and the silence after hung heaviest. The seven deadly sins are
diner conversation. The cigarettes aren’t real anymore,
but the Elvis Costello songs playing quietly are. In the quiet,
people are pretending to be a family,
discussing what was work and what was thought
and what belongs to who. Everything is about want or want not.


"EVERYTHING'S NOT LOST"

When I counted up my demons
Saw there was one for every day
With the good ones on my shoulders
I drove the other ones away
So, if you ever feel neglected
And if you think that all is lost
I'll be counting up my demons, yeah
Hoping everything's not lost
When you thought that it was over
You could feel it all around
Everybody's out to get you
Don't you let it drag you down
'Cause if you ever feel neglected
If you think that all is lost
I'll be counting up my demons, yeah
Hoping everything's not lost
If you ever feel neglected
If you think that all is lost
I'll be counting up my demons, yeah
Hoping everything's not lost


"DINOSAURS"

I still dream about dinosaurs.

Some days I connect 
to the oily flow of loneliness,
its spiderweb threading backward 
to days that are only carbon 
on the walls of my skull. I try to remember
first pain, first laugh, kiss, wreck,
rain on a windshield, 
cold sweat on a summer glass,
burning tin and every tunnel I’ve ever been through,
the barrel of a gun. The weight of powder
and lead. Returning to oil and all the mechanisms
that work to bury every sequence deeper,
deeper, beneath more sediment and salt. Oil,
every feeling an extinction event.


"ALMANAC"

I couldn't see over your back
Your skin was racked
With season to swallow
You are my almanac, oh
Make me grow

Push me out from the land
I'll lick the salt off of your hands
Swim over bodies that fell
Open my eyes to nothing but you

The changing sea
The universe meets
To swallow me

I climbed a mountain
Up your spine I climbed inside your mind
Up to your eyes to make you blind
To make you mine
You are my almanac, oh

Push me out from the land
I'll lick the salt off of your hands
Swim over bodies that fell
Open my eyes to nothing but you

The changing sea


"A LONG STORY WITH A STRAIGHT LINE"

Painted in permanence across cave walls at the base of a cliff in deep Patagonia, hands, hands, thousands of hands ten thousand years old, one after another. The hands and the surrounding scene tell a long story that gets longer as archaeologists and anthropologists continue to translate. For example, we know how the handprints were made – hunter-gatherers filled bone pipes, found scattered in the dirt, with mineral paints, dusts of crimson, white, purple, and ochre, blew into the tool, and sprayed color at the back of their hands and the surrounding wall – when they lifted their hands, a hand remained stained onto the stone. We know ten thousand years because those bone-pipes, sculpted from the leg-bones of large rodents and small deer which wandered what were then wide beige grasslands, could be taken into laboratories, observed by machines that count radioactive isotopes of carbon and spit out dates. We know for certain that there are eight-hundred-and-twenty-seven left hands and thirty-one right hands, meaning most of the artists were right-handed, feeling more comfortable with the ingenious device in their dominant right hand. We know some of the hands are missing fingers, but we can only guess why – maybe from infection or amputation, or, as some of the more daring anthropologists have offered, these hands are performing a lost form of sign language and thus sending a message we, even with all our data-eating machines, will never translate. When I was a not much bigger than two hands and crying, my mother would pick me up and hold me in one of her thin arms, switching to the other arm when one got sore, and would twist slightly at her hips and shoulders over and over softly to create a gentle swaying motion, partly, maybe, because she was a young mother and nervous, feeling powerless at the sound of her only child wailing, partly, maybe, because she was tired, tired from working her late shifts before her early shifts before her late shifts, the type of tired that surpasses physical status into emotion, tiredness not bound in her arms and legs but inside her skull, behind her eyes and pushing out and partly because after a while, sometimes a very long while, this rocking motion seemed to help, and I would quiet into steady breath, my eyes not so much closing but floating shut in that slow wind only a tired mother can produce, and sleep again. Of course, I don’t remember any of this. My mother smirked as she recounted this little ritual fifteen years later and early in the desert morning, both of us cold as I stood before the front door to leave for school in a beanie and oversized backpack, when she saw that I was just sort of swaying, idle, swaying on my own, turning myself at my awkward hips and broadening shoulders, slowly, slowly. From layers of findings from layers of projections of past touches touching, perhaps the most remarkable finding is that some of the handprints highest on the cave walls belong to the smallest hands. As I said, this is a long story. It keeps getting longer. Here. Sit down with me. If you know it, sing. If you don’t, listen. Once you know it, please, sing.


"THE BRAIN IS WIDER THAN THE SKY"

The Brain—is wider than the Sky—
For—put them side by side—
The one the other will contain
With ease—and You—beside—

The Brain is deeper than the sea—
For—hold them—Blue to Blue—
The one the other will absorb—
As Sponges—Buckets—do—

The Brain is just the weight of God—
For—Heft them—Pound for Pound—
And they will differ—if they do—
As Syllable from Sound— 


"HUMAN"

I did my best to notice
When the call came down the line
Up to the platform of surrender
I was brought, but I was kind
And sometimes I get nervous
When I see an open door
Close your eyes
Clear your heart
Cut the cord

Pay my respects to grace and virtue
Send my condolences to good
Give my regards to soul and romance
They always did the best they could
And so long to devotion
You taught me everything I know
Wave goodbye
Wish me well
You've gotta let me go

Will your system be alright
When you dream of home tonight?
There is no message we're receiving
Let me know, is your heart still beating?

Are we human
Or are we dancer?
My sign is vital
My hands are cold
And I'm on my knees
Looking for the answer
Are we human
Or are we dancer?



"WHEN I AM OLD AND MY BODY DISSOLVES"

I won’t remember the summers
before we met, and how my best friends would sing
in the car, or tear pages from books 
to send me in the mail. I won’t remember
the periods when I became someone else,
where time lost track of me. Won’t remember
how to swim, or that I was once a bright, illuminated shark
able to bless dark spaces. Who will be I on the ocean floor?
Who will I be when the oceans disappear into the sun? 

I am dreaming, right now, a future,
full of soft, dim, memories. You, pumping heat into my heart,
your silhouette against an oncoming storm. A day on the couch,
where the room doesn’t breathe like a still life, and 
we can feel the soft static between us. You smell like pine,
and when I place my lips where your neck and shoulder meet
I inherit the salt of your skin. The air is cold, and your hands
are wrapped around a cup of coffee. If I stopped dreaming, 
what would happen?

By then, we have learned how easy love comes
when we just let it happen, like construction in the spring.
When our breathing is equally a brutality and a blessing,
the rain comes, muddies the earth, and passes,
having changed the world. I have learned
I can soften and still be steady.


"MY BATHTUB TAKES ME TO THE SEA"

Melancholy thunder. I wake and recall,
a nightmare. My lantern shattered on the slipway.
A hand that is not mine guides me
to the water. 

Healing is not for me. 
There are no more boards
for Theseus’ ship. There was never anything
to me. The warmth of my body has always been 
a kind of hunger. See how it reaches toward the light.
A moth. A star. 

Adventure! In the dark. I was built 
for many adventures. I believe in no miracles, 
except myself. I require no heaven. I pray to no one, 
save myself. Her, 
I’ve prayed to. 

I am not old. I wonder 
where we keep our souls. I wonder 
why do we borrow 
fire that must be returned?  
I am not old. For now, 
I am here, preparing
the boat. I am thinking about Shelley,
and triumph and waves. Waves. Waves.

Stay with me for a moment, 
I am not yet brave.


"BEGIN AGAIN"

Well so, here I am at the end of the road Where do I go from here? I always figured it would be like this Still nothin' seems to be quite clear All the words have been spoken And the prophecy fulfilled But I just can't decide where to go Yes, it's been quite a day And I should go to sleep But tomorrow I will wake up and I'll know That I've got to begin again Though I don't know how to start Yes, I've got to begin again, and it's hard Well, it's been quite a while since I lifted my head And I'm sure the light will hurt my eyes I see the way that I've been spendin' my days And reality has caught me by surprise I was dreamin' of tomorrow So I sacrificed today And it sure was a grand waste of time And despite all the truth that's been thrown in my face I just can't get you out of my mind But I've got to begin again Though I don't know how to start Yes, I've got to begin again, and it's hard


"TIME"

Think of me
Anyway you want
I can be
The problem if that's easier
In your head
Move the pieces around
Things I've said
Turn the memory upside down
And it makes it better I know
But sometimes it's hard to swallow
In time I will fade away
In time I won't hear what you say
In time, but time takes time you know
Tell your friends
The things they wanna hear and see
Start the drums
Band against the enemy
And in time I will fade away
In time I won't care what you say
In time, but time takes time you know
In your head
Move the pieces round
Things I've said
Turn the memory upside down
It might make it better, I know
But sometimes it's hard to swallow
In time I will fade away
In time I won't care what you say
In time, but time takes time you know
Time takes time you know


"HOW NOT TO DROWN"

I'm writing a book on how to stay conscious when you drown And if the words float up to the surface, I'll keep them down This is the first time I know I don't want the crown You can take it now You promised the world and brought me it hanging from a string Stuck in my mouth, into my throat, told me to sing That was the first time I knew you can't kill the king And those who kiss the ring Tell me how It's better when the sun goes down We will never escape this town I wasn't scared when he caught me Look what it taught me Tell me how It's better if I make no sound I will never escape these doubts I wasn't dead when they found me Watch as they pull me down I'm writing a chapter on what to do after they dig you up On what to do after you grew to hate what you used to love That was the first time I knew they were out for blood And they would have your guts Tell me how It's better when the sun goes down We will never escape this town I wasn't scared when he caught me Look what it taught me Tell me how It's better if I make no sound I will never escape these doubts I wasn't dead when they found me Watch as they pull me down I'm writing a book on how to stay conscious when you drown And if the words float up to the surface, I'll keep them down This is the first time I know I don't want the crown You can take it now


"ALWAYS HUNGRY AND JOYOUS CREATURES"

Last night 
I wanted to tell you a story
about birds, something about their bones,
how hollowness helps make them 
whole. This morning we stood on the rocks
and watched the gulls fly 
over the bay – 

you took my hand
and I didn’t have to say a word.


"APPLE TREE BLUES"

Wearin' raspberry velvet and the rabbits in the hole Where the apple tree fell over two years ago Man, you could never stop it, it was always gonna go When you're hidin' in the cotton, get a tickle in your soul And I could really go for a little bit of rock 'n roll Yeah, I could really go for a little bit of rock 'n roll And let's go lookin' in the sugar cane And wander 'round the country in the pourin' rain Win a couple dollars, lose a couple games And walk tall laughin' in the sugar cane then take a trip on a golden airplane Yeah, then you take a trip on a golden airplane And you'll tell me what your heart's been through Tell me where you're goin' to Tell me all the things you'd like to do but you can't 'Cause you're scared that you're goin' to hell Feels alright but you can't really tell All of that cigarette ash is good and well It's good and well And there's a mother of pearl layin' in the sand A quarter of the size of the palm of your hand Hold it to the sun, sure does look grand Hangin' from a mirror on a rubber band Your whole damn life you never even had a plan It's like your whole damn life you never even had a plan To tell me what your heart's been through Tell me where you're goin' to Tell me all the things you'd like to do but you can't 'Cause you're scared that you're goin' to hell Feels alright but you can't really tell All of that cigarette ash is good and well It's good and well


"SNARES ARE MADE OF LOOPS"

I talk about how much of my life revolves around rabbits
while you count the seconds it takes
to grind the coffee. I talk about Yasmina Reza 
and the last page of Art, how it deals with destruction, loss,
how it connects to a painting that doesn’t exist
about a rabbit that doesn’t exist, 
like talking about it might make it real.
Like Ted didn’t talk more to Sylvia after she was dead. I rewind 
to a sketch by Toyen, a rabbit’s head in the sandcastles,
how they get it wrong, how they make death peaceful. Of course
this leads to remembering my dad, the BB gun, the rabbit and blood,
the night I wouldn’t eat. All of this leads to John Updike – 
	
	you do things and do things and nobody really has a clue.

We go for a walk after breakfast. There’s still frost on the ground.
By the fence of the playground,
a dead rabbit. We say nothing.


"TIN"

If you look closely at a tin can,
you can see the atoms. Not with the naked eye,
mind you. With the proper tools
the holes become clear, the space
heat fills before a sudden collapse,
edges electricity traces. What you are talking about
when you speak about metals
isn’t nobility or conductivity. It’s all about potential
of form and function and future, how sometimes
what holds the soup is really human.


"HAVE HAD PART 2"

Calf-deep in strawberry leaves, I watch you crouch on your knees, searching and excavating. Our hands match, stained pink. Maybe love is spiritual. Maybe it’s scientific. Either way, I know it’s the way you look at strawberries—gasping at their beauty, plucking each delicately and saying, “Oh, that’s a good one.” They chopped our skyscrapers down like trees because planes kept clipping their wings on the too-tall buildings. Sorry, said the city, and then our downtown was felled. The problem was that our city bled into the airport. Our houses curled round the terminals and we watched stern businessmen call taxis from our front yards. And our school was right by the runway, so that when we walked between classes our hair blew in the jet stream. Eventually, they made us stop playing on the football field—said a plane might land there by mistake. But once a janitor forgot to switch off the stadium lights at night and a red-eye from China descended, slowing to a gentle roll at the fifty-yard mark. The businessmen tumbled onto the Astro-Terf, their eyes thick with sleep, their briefcases haphazard. We found them there still in the morning. So we guided them home, one by one.


"MACHINERY"

The rain brings what you don’t forget – 
floods, yes, and flowers. Remember frogs
in the low-lying areas, the wandering turtle,
a young god’s excited pulse on the tin roof,
the shuffled smell of minerals rising
from the mud. The growth of rust
on the hollow cars buried 
in the shelter belt. The plum tree exploding its blooms
when the wind sang, and the shine of the amber
reminding everyone that the maple tree is dying
and needs to become fire. Remember
holding that small, gold, crystal ball, 
looking at the tractor through its fish-eye,
dreaming that you could carry machines so easily
you could forget you were carrying them at all.
	

"OAKS"

Growing up, I cut down so many dead trees.

They were always running out of water
when I could drink and drink and drink,
especially when I was nervous. Were they?

The lack of sway in the stiff limbs
was trying to teach me something. That absence.
The pain of losing motion.

That when I was older
and my legs were locked and my wrists were brittle,
I wouldn’t worry so much
about the chainsaw.


"WE GROW USED TO THE DARK"

We grow accustomed to the Dark --
When light is put away --
As when the Neighbor holds the Lamp
To witness her Goodbye --

A Moment -- We uncertain step
For newness of the night --
Then -- fit our Vision to the Dark --
And meet the Road -- erect --

And so of larger -- Darkness --
Those Evenings of the Brain --
When not a Moon disclose a sign --
Or Star -- come out -- within --

The Bravest -- grope a little --
And sometimes hit a Tree
Directly in the Forehead --
But as they learn to see --

Either the Darkness alters --
Or something in the sight
Adjusts itself to Midnight --
And Life steps almost straight. 


"SLEEPWALKING"

The sunlight, one morning, broke out of the clouds
and chased down the slowly settling glass of the windows
in the center of campus. I can’t remember why I was awake,
but I remember silver mirrors 
casting purple and orange onto the trees. It was the beginning 
of spring, and the flowers didn’t care
what color the light was. They took it, loved it, gave it back – 
I wish there were more memories like this,
just me and the soft glow in a place that is only the same
when I’m sleepwalking.


"SUM TOTAL OF BREATHS"

I'm silent and waiting for the wind, a dandelion not yet ready to be born. Closing my eyes, all I see is yellow, the golden light of possibility. Inhale, exhale. Spread my love to wherever it may land and I will bloom. Everywhere is home. I want you to see. Am I talking to you or the mirror? Do you even hear what I say? Sometimes, I'm quiet and waiting for the wind, a wave seeking the shore. Diving under, all I see is murky blue, the safety of oblivion. Inhale, exhale. Drift onward to wherever I may land or I will freeze. Nowhere is home. I want you to decide. Am I begging you or the mirror? I am quiet and waiting for the wind, a bird still in the nest. Opening my eyes, all I see is brown, the tangled form of a future. Inhale, make a sound. Unfurl my wings, look over the edge and I will stretch a little more. Involuntarily. Down there, up there—both are home. I want to fly. Am I tempting you or the mirror? I am quiet and waiting for the wind, a small melody still stuck in my throat. Opening my eyes, all I see is white, the endless blank page. Inhale, pick up the pen, exhale. Say something and I will show you who you are. Write something and you will know. They will know. We will know. All there is is home. I want you to belong. Am I inviting you or the mirror? I am no longer quiet, but waiting for the wind, wheels up on blocks, turning, turning. Turning around and around, all I see is motion, the blurred movement of everything. Breathe faster, breathe slower, slower still and deeper. Set me free and I will push. I am ready to create a home. I want to believe. Am I talking to you or the mirror? I am here and singing in the wind, a flower swaying in the sun. Celebrating, all I see is beauty, the vibrant mystery of life. Inhale, savor, exhale, release. I have bloomed. Everywhere is home. I allow you to see me and that I am your mirror. And, you are mine. Reflect and shine, reflect and shine.


"THE FRUIT CELLAR IS EMPTY"

We are here, in a world becoming
desert, winter and summer,
and the green rise of spring seems so distant, here
because our wings are clipped, a chorus singing 
as our ship sinks – the sea of wheat is stripped
to chaff, the branches of the forest bare,
so each note echoes. 

An empty home, nothing but spit 
and horsehair, a little earth, cold and wet 
like a grave. Dry like a bone, our trenches 
carved in wooden years – we are not forgotten,
only wrapped deeper, the seeds of an apple:
a little sweet, a little poison,
still growing, a sleeping tree 
ripe with hope, the poisoned fruit of nostalgia. 

The sun will bring a new day
and rot, and winter will preserve its fragile skeleton,
a reminder:
we do not come into this world
so full of limbs 
to be alone.


"MAKE WHAT THEY CALL REVOLUTION"

We are born from children’s building blocks,
crossword puzzles filled with instinct and disobedience:
a desire to be taller,
to stack ourselves ever skyward
on the bow of a pirate ship,
stolen from the dead, a figurehead to dissolve in a storm
like petals from a rhododendron,
changed like the boards of the lifeboat we adorn,
wood cut from compliments 
tilted like a pinball table, a war table, a barricade, 
walls up against open hands and tactical gunfire alike.
 
An open door is an obvious weakness
in a rat trap, lodged in a coffin
like every legend, bygone like Ozymandias
worn to sand, not standing
anymore – it’s something to be something
burnt and broken, 
with a foundation of toothpicks and I Ching hexagrams
we will rebuild ourselves:
a towering monument.


"21 THINGS I WANT IN A LOVER"

Do you derive joy when someone else succeeds? Do you not play dirty when engaged in competition? Do you have a big intellectual capacity But know that it alone does not equate to wisdom? Do you see everything as an illusion But enjoy it even though you are not of it? Are you both masculine and feminine, politically aware? And don't believe in capital punishment? These are 21 things that I want in a lover Not necessarily needs but qualities that I prefer Do you derive joy from diving in and seeing that Loving someone can actually feel like freedom? Are you funny and self-depreciating, like adventure And have many formed opinions? These are 21 things that I want in a lover Not necessarily needs but qualities that I prefer I figure I can describe it since I have a choice in the matter These are 21 things I choose to choose in a lover I'm in no hurry I could wait forever I'm in no rush 'cause I like being solo There are no worries and certainly no pressure in the meantime In the meantime, I'll live like there's no tomorrow Are you uninhibited in bed, more than three times a week Up for being experimental? Are you athletic? Are you thriving in a job that helps your brother? Are you not addicted? These are 21 things that I want in a lover Not necessarily needs but qualities that I prefer I figure I can describe it since I have a choice in the matter These are 21 things I choose to choose in a lover


"WALNUT SHELL"

Some nights, my neck hurts
and I worry I’m dying. 
I’ve seen pictures
of my spine, glowing with arthritis.
I wonder if there’s something wrong
with my bones, my brain,
my heart. I dread being split open
like I’m already dead. Christmas is coming,
like always. There will be cinnamon
and dancing. Every time I hear Tchaikovsky
I think about a jaw unhinging
to crack my ribs, to find the meat. I wonder
if there is anything left to savor.


"THE ART OF RACING IN THE RAIN"

Here's why I will be a good person. Because I listen. I cannot talk, so I listen very well. I never deflect the course of the conversation with a comment of my own. People, if you pay attention to them, change the direction of one another's conversations constantly. It's like being a passenger in your car who suddenly grabs the steering wheel and turns you down a side street. For instance, if we met at a party and I wanted to tell you a story about the time I needed to get a soccer ball in my neighbor's yard but his dog chased me and I had to jump into a swimming pool to escape, and I began telling the story, you, hearing the words "soccer" and "neighbor" in the same sentence, might interrupt and mention that your childhood neighbor was Pele, the famous soccer player, and I might be courteous and say, Didn't he play for the Cosmos of New York? Did you grow up in New York? And you might reply that, no, you grew up in Brazil on the streets of Tres Coracoes with Pele, and I might say, I thought you were from Tennessee, and you might say not originally, and then go on to outline your genealogy at length. So my initial conversational gambit - that I had a funny story about being chased by my neighbor's dog - would be totally lost, and only because you had to tell me all about Pele. Learn to listen! I beg of you. Pretend you are a dog like me and listen to other people rather than steal their stories.


"TOMORROW IS TODAY"

I've been livin' for the moment
But I just can't have my way
And I'm afraid to go to sleep
'Cause tomorrow is today

People tell me life is sweeter
But I don't hear what they say
Nothing comes to change my life
So tomorrow is today

I don't care to know the hour
'Cause it's passing anyway
I don't have to see tomorrow
'Cause I saw it yesterday

So I listen for an answer
But the feeling seems to stay
And what's the use of always dreaming
If tomorrow is today, oh

Still I'm waiting for the morning
But it feels so far away
And you don't need the love
I'm giving
So tomorrow is today

Oh my, I'm goin' to the river
Gonna take a ride and the Lord will deliver me
Make my bed, I'm gonna lie in it
If you don't come, I'm sure gonna die in it
Too late. too much givin'

I've seen a lot of life and I'm damn sick of livin' it
I keep hopin' that you will pass my way
And someday if your dreams are leavin' you
I'll still believe in you

Though I'm living and I'm singing
And although my hands still play
Soon enough it will all be over 'cause
Tomorrow is today


"PINK NAILS"

Church camp was not a place for God 
as much as it was a place for exploring 
an imaginary existence. Sitting in a circle. 
Campfires. The same circles in our cabin, 
girls on the inside, boys on the outside,
jokes about painting our nails 
bouncing off the cedar walls. The girls flirting 
because they knew, in this case, they were God. 
Big G. I offered them my hands, 
and they showed me the power 
to transform my life. Pink nails on my fingers. 
Small flags to wave. “The glitter looks good,”
they said. It made me feel something 
I couldn’t name. Accepting myself
is a bit like accepting Jesus. I bit my nails 
and tasted the paint, imagined a different life. 
And when we went home I had plain nails 
and a story to tell about something 
that doesn’t make me who I am, 
just something that helped me understand 
who I could be. Salvation. At least for myself.
A lesson forgotten under the watch of my parents,
who just wanted me to be a good boy. I wonder,
now, when I put on a dress, how I could have refused 
a truth, and how those closest to me were blind to it.


"UNHOLY ACQUISITIONS"

I was a witch knocked off her broom, the mad woman trapped in the attic. We met three days after the hospital had spat me out, back into the gilded cage of my mother. I swear that I could feel the bags that purpled my eyes. My clothes hung like wet cotton to a body that rejected curves and my lips were always chapped. You were the eldest son of my mother's best friend, the eldest golden child that had been shipped off to military school when you decided to set an unsuspecting neighbor's metal mailbox ablaze, combusting with angry, red licks of fire. You were fifteen years old at the time and your mother still buzzed your hair in the kitchen. That night, I followed you into your old bedroom and saw that your mother hadn't bothered to change any of the posters. A dusty Kurt Cobain was hastily taped next to Eddie Vedder. Perhaps your mother believed in the voodoo of ritual, the comfort of denial. After all, you both pretended to ignore the way my mother was afraid to touch me, as though I were a dirty animal she had wrangled from the street. My eye of Horus failed to help me, my little amulet broken. I think about the ways that you have failed me and I think that my rage could burn my body to ash and dust. I think about the ways that I could hurt you but I don't think that they would ever amount to much.


"THE SWIMSUIT DREAM"

An ocean sunset. I am smooth and curved 
like a stone. Like the shore of the sea. I am wearing the pink sunset,
in a pink swimsuit, in a field of darkening blue, 
where you can’t tell the sky from the water 
except for the slow stretching of the sun away from the stars. 
And I am happy. I collect shells and watch gulls. Treasures and friends. 
They are shiny and beautiful, and so am I.
It was a wonderful dream, at four. Maybe five. But I woke up, 
and I told my mom, how I felt less like a boy. Kind of like a girl,
and she said she didn’t want to hear it. She was no saint, 
but said it was a disease of sin and shame. She didn’t want to listen
to the soft parts of me that could hold a confession
with without breaking it. I loved myself until she stopped that day.
The truth is whole body that flies and shines,
and I disappeared completely for so long. What is a husk
other than something that has existed and has disappeared 
at the same time? I am trying now to become something else.
Myself. In absolution.


"CRADLE NECROMANCY"

We learn in childhood in unconscious hope. It's a wonder 
we expect a thing to stay the same. I don’t know how 
to deal with my anger sometimes. I dig a hole 
in the back yard to bury the cradle of my youth. This is repetition 
compulsion, this loop, this necromancy. 

My journey is part of the ground, now. A moth flies from the earth, 
gray, soft and frail. Like me or a ghost. Everything is dry. 
A corn husk. A bone. I keep digging until I see the sun, 
mine the hellfire, hold it close. This is what is feels like 
to sew faith into an empty garden. Waiting to grow. 
Days oscillate. Yesterday, tomorrow. 
An anvilhead rises. A hammer of lightning.
It shatters me, but I accept it, 
like the road wears the weather. 
I do nothing but swallow rain and thunder. Watch the water pool 
in the cratered soil.  Every ripple leads to the edge. 


"ROADKILL"

Someone please tell me why we swerve 
for animals that are already dead.

Is it because we fear 
their ghosts will haunt us? Do we want to rubberneck, 
keep an eye on the blood, tuck the image 
in the back of our minds? I fear dying again and again 
in the wheel, where nothing is permanent 
and everything is in flux. The clouds, the rainbow, 
the guardian angels. Do we think they can still feel 
the pain of our tires, or do we hope 
they can still smell the chamomile flowers 
growing near their asphalt graves? 

I fear losing memories 
where small ghosts rebirth themselves 
on the map of my arteries. 

I am not a good traveler. 
My plans are fixed. 
I will arrive. 

Maybe we swerve because we know 
we are already dead too. 
Too simple. What if we swerve 
because we are neither dead nor alive 
but something in between? I fear forgetting 
the way, the power of a compass. 

A flicker of light in the dark, 
a blur of motion in the rain,
it is already gone. We missed it - 
a moment of easy grace in the chaos
where we could look forward to the wonder, grow
unbroken bones. Not every wound is a reason 
to disappear. Drive.

"STRETCHED LYRIC 1"

You got to leave me now, you got to go alone You got to chase a dream, one that's all your own Before it slips away When you're flyin' high, take my heart along I'll be the harmony to every lonely song That you learn to play When you're soarin' through the air I'll be your solid ground Take every chance you dare I'll still be there When you come back down When you come back down I'll keep lookin' up, awaitin' your return My greatest fear will be that you will crash and burn And I won't feel your fire I'll be the other hand that always holds the line Connectin' in between your sweet heart and mine I'm strung out on that wire And I'll be on the other end, To hear you when you call Angel, you were born to fly, If you get too high I'll catch you when you fall I'll catch you when you fall Your memory's the sunshine every new day brings I know the sky is calling Angel, let me help you with your wings When you're soarin' through the air I'll be your solid ground Take every chance you dare I'll still be there When you come back down Take every chance you dare, I'll still be there When you come back down When you come back down


"PERFECT PLACES"

Every night, I live and die
Feel the party to my bones
Watch the wasters blow the speakers
Spill my guts beneath the outdoor light
It's just another graceless night
I hate the headlines and the weather
I'm nineteen and I'm on fire
But when we're dancing, I'm alright
It's just another graceless night
Are you lost enough?
Have another drink, get lost in us
This is how we get notorious, oh
'Cause I don't know
If they keep tellin' me where to go
I'll blow my brains out to the radio, oh-oh-oh-oh
All of the things we're taking
'Cause we are young and we're ashamed
Send us to perfect places
All of our heroes fading
Now I can't stand to be alone
Let's go to perfect places
Every night, I live and die
Meet somebody, take 'em home
Let's kiss and then take off our clothes
It's just another graceless night, 'cause
All of the things we're taking
'Cause we are young and we're ashamed
Send us to perfect places
All of our heroes fading
Now I can't stand to be alone
Let's go to perfect places
All of the nights spent off our faces
Trying to find these perfect places
What the fuck are perfect places anyway?
All of the nights spent off our faces
Trying to find these perfect places
What the fuck are perfect places anyway?
All the nights spent off our faces
Trying to find these perfect places
What the fuck are perfect places anyway?


"SPIRIT WEEK DRESS"

I have always loved flowers 
and lace and birds and butterflies. And color! 
I love color. The thing I am most scared of, 
being alive, is not being myself
by the time I’m in the ground with flowers
growing over me.

In high school, for spirit week, 
we had Hat Day and Pajama Day 
and Crossdress Day. In a red state, 
with a pink face, 
I borrowed a blue and gold maxi dress 
from my first girlfriend. 
While she wore one of my hoodies 
and a pair of jeans, I wore a secret 
with confidence. And nobody laughed 
or hit me or shoved me around, 
they just let me walk around 
and giggle and learn. 
And I’ve never forgotten.

More dresses hanging in my closet now 
are a challenge. To become. To return. 
A reminder that curves can be there 
even when they’re not visible. I know 
when I put on the dress I am being 
more honest. I am softening on the outside 
to match the softness that has always been 
inside. The softness I reinforce 
with a scaffolding of farm summers, barbed wire, 
and BB guns and acting smarter than I am,
hoping that age and wisdom
help me fit the future better. 


"A VOCABULARY"

He scratched my back from neck to tailbone. Curling, looping, like handwriting. I was his paper. It made me shiver. Out his window, I glimpsed a bloated moon. He had me lie on a towel that felt rough, like a string of small arguments. We didn't say much. Earlier, he'd frowned, lifting his eyes from his phone. Asked if he knew me. I said you don't and you won't. That was in the coffee place, in the strip mall, near my work. A whole vocabulary ago. That was in the morning.


"IN THE SECULAR NIGHT"

In the secular night you wander around
alone in your house. It’s two-thirty.
Everyone has deserted you,
or this is your story;
you remember it from being sixteen,
when the others were out somewhere, having a good time,
or so you suspected,
and you had to baby-sit.
You took a large scoop of vanilla ice-cream
and filled up the glass with grapejuice
and ginger ale, and put on Glenn Miller
with his big-band sound,
and lit a cigarette and blew the smoke up the chimney,
and cried for a while because you were not dancing,
and then danced, by yourself, your mouth circled with purple.
Now, forty years later, things have changed,
and it’s baby lima beans.
It’s necessary to reserve a secret vice.
This is what comes from forgetting to eat
at the stated mealtimes. You simmer them carefully,
drain, add cream and pepper,
and amble up and down the stairs,
scooping them up with your fingers right out of the bowl,
talking to yourself out loud.
You’d be surprised if you got an answer,
but that part will come later.

There is so much silence between the words,
you say. You say, The sensed absence
of God and the sensed presence
amount to much the same thing,
only in reverse.
You say, I have too much white clothing.
You start to hum.
Several hundred years ago
this could have been mysticism
or heresy. It isn’t now.
Outside there are sirens.
Someone’s been run over.
The century grinds on.


"TO THE END OF THE WORLD"

In the dark, I see the effluence of everything. I wake up as an acrobat, midair, when there is nothing to say, and the world has stopped. I believe I die every night in my sleep, open eyes to a new universe. I am terrified one day I will blink the sun away, alone, to no breathing but my own. A question, always: why can’t my silent words build a home, a fortress, build safety. Nothing is secure. In any universe my inner voice is louder than my mouth, tongue the cherry color of hot metal, sounds of a burnt forest in a windstorm. I hold the map and the map is gone – I hold the corner, I palm the tear. Frayed paper. A feather. There are wings on everyone’s back, we are voyaging on a current that doesn’t know why it flows or freezes. Sometimes I feel I might be growing. My heart moves from being cold to being unguessed. A flower drifting in a bud vase rustles a memory. The weight of a velvet bag of marbles drifts through my hand from twenty years ago. The cat’s eyes smoke out from glass balls on a living room floor into a front porch filled with the smell of spilled beer, an old friend’s freshly lit Lucky Strike; vanilla cigarillos are buried in the ice cream playing across a lover’s lips. The lights are strobing between blurred halogens screaming on a dark road and old neon glowing on Main. The streets are the same, the buildings change like the length of grass along the interstate. I drive past the church I grew out of like the single red dress I ever felt attractive in. I am not the devil, nor am I Prometheus, but when I see the dark wash over the late afternoon sky, I want to turn, tell you, I believe it is just waiting for stars. I’ve seen it. I’m coming.


"I WATCHED A ROSEBUD"

I watched a rosebud very long
Brought on by dew and sun and shower,
Waiting to see the perfect flower:
Then, when I thought it should be strong,
It opened at the matin hour
And fell at evensong.
I watched a nest from day to day,
A green nest full of pleasant shade,
Wherein three speckled eggs were laid:
But when they should have hatched in May,
The two old birds had grown afraid
Or tired, and flew away.
Then in my wrath I broke the bough
That I had tended so with care,
Hoping its scent should fill the air;
I crushed the eggs, not heeding how
Their ancient promise had been fair:
I would have vengeance now.
But the dead branch spoke from the sod,
And the eggs answered me again:
Because we failed dost thou complain?
Is thy wrath just? And what if God,
Who waiteth for thy fruits in vain,
Should also take the rod?


"SPECULATIONS"

We breathe too fast to be able to grasp things in themselves or to expose their fragility. Our panting postulates and distorts them, creates and disfigures them, and binds us to them. I bestir myself, therefore I emit a world as suspect as my speculation which justifies it; I espouse movement, which changes me into a generator of being, into an artisan of fictions, while my cosmogonic verve makes me forget that, led on by the whirlwind of acts, I am nothing but an acolyte of time, an agent of decrepit universes. If we would regain our freedom, we must shake off the burden of sensation, no longer react to the world by our senses, break our bonds. For all sensation is a bond, pleasure as much as pain, joy as much as misery. The only free mind is the one that, pure of all intimacy with beings or objects, plies its own vacuity.


"WEIGHING THE RAYS OF DEAD STARS"

I pluck a strand of silver from my head 
and hold it 
to the night sky - 
it could be a filament of light 
connecting me to some distant dawn.
It could be an offering.

Do the stars remember their beginnings? 
Do they wade into the void just to feel 
the gravity waves lap against them? 
Do they fear their decay? Life
takes a different meaning
when nobody will know you’re gone 
until you shine brighter. 

What does the future look like 
from a receding horizon,
when I am a still point, burning?

Without even knowing what it’s doing,
gravity pulls my strand of silver 
to the ground, but the hair is inconsequential,
and the wind effortlessly blows it
somewhere else.


"UNTITLED 1"

sometimes 
if you trade scrap metal 
for a tarot card, 
you find yourself kneeling 
under the discipline 
of a spring morning. 

the rain hurts, now,
but you still like water, 
and all the rosemary 
has disappeared 
in your mouth. 

other people 
get to be something. 
you get to be a wasteland 
in dreams
where you never learn.


"UNTITLED 2"

looking back 
on the history of my pulse,
my dreams float in the dark, 
strange and skinless, 
the skeletons 
of a hurricane. 

there is rust
falling like snow 
from the bells
of my cathedral.

once, i was a shrine,
an altar, a borrowed heart -
often I wonder
if becoming a tree
will be worth the pain
I accept just by breathing
and bleeding.


"UNTITLED 3"

i am building a grammar 
of experience. 
 
the lake shore
wants more sand,
more bones. 

the plum tree
is dropping stones
ripe with ghosts.

a bomb 
filled with the breeze 
explodes with a rattle.

anyway, in the future
i already know
i am incomplete.


"TIS THE DAMNED SEASON"

If I wanted to know who you were hanging with
While I was gone I would have asked you
It's the kind of cold, fogs up windshield glass
But I felt it when I passed you
There's an ache in you put there by the ache in me
But if it's all the same to you
It's the same to me
So we could call it even
You could call me babe for the weekend
'Tis the damn season, write this down
I'm stayin' at my parents' house
And the road not taken looks real good now
And it always leads to you in my hometown
I parkеd my car right between the Methodist
And thе school that used to be ours
The holidays linger like bad perfume
You can run, but only so far
I escaped it too, remember how you watched me leave
But if it's okay with you, it's okay with me
We could call it even
You could call me babe for the weekend
'Tis the damn season, write this down
I'm stayin' at my parents' house
And the road not taken looks real good now
Time flies, messy as the mud on your truck tires
Now I'm missing your smile, hear me out
We could just ride around
And the road not taken looks real good now
And it always leads to you in my hometown
Sleep in half the day just for old times' sake
I won't ask you to wait if you don't ask me to stay
So I'll go back to L.A. and the so-called friends
Who'll write books about me, if I ever make it
And wonder about the only soul who can tell which smiles I'm fakin'
And the heart I know I'm breakin' is my own
To leave the warmest bed I've ever known
We could call it even
Even though I'm leavin'
And I'll be yours for the weekend
'Tis the damn season
We could call it even
You could call me babe for the weekend
'Tis the damn season, write this down
I'm stayin' at my parents' house
And the road not taken looks real good now
Time flies, messy as the mud on your truck tires
Now I'm missing your smile, hear me out
We could just ride around
And the road not taken looks real good now
And it always leads to you in my hometown
It always leads to you in my hometown


"UNTITLED 4"

Most days, I dislike being in my skin. 
I would rather be glued
to the sunlight filtering through the sheers.
I wonder how strong the world must be
to keep moving when it hurts.

I have never been strip mined,
but I have shining nostalgia
deposited deep in my sinews.
The beast wants it, the cold shock 
of every new childhood experience.


"OCEAN-FACED"

I knew something was wrong
when you came ocean-faced into the bedroom,
eyes wet and panicked, like you’d dropped
like you dropped your ring down sink, lost
a treasure to the depths. I knew that look
because I’d worn it myself when I was younger – 
ocean-faced, the look you get
watching someone you love die. 

Your mom, like the saints, is silent right now,
your dad is calling family. I am asking you questions
you don’t know the answers to. You want answers
and you want your mom. So,
we drive away from home, quickly
toward uncertainty. Watching you cry
the whole way – 
something I’ll never forget. You hugged her
with enough force to throw me back in time. 

I am going to relive this with you.

We don’t get enough details. We get dates
and names of doctors. We make dinner
and play board games, and I wonder 
if you’re letting your mom win. A little victory,
a certainty. At night, in the guest room,
you hold me tighter, and whisper in my ear.

You ask
how people sleep
when they learn
death has come closer.

I don’t know
what to tell you – 
death is holding our hands
when we are born.

My words help us cry together, ocean-faced
in a familiar place made strange. We take more time,
we make plans that revolve
around distance and appointments
and each other. I will never not be there. I will feel
the old hollow of my own mom’s absence, new,
every day with you. 

When we leave for home, you’re an anchor,
heavy and steady. You can drive this time. We talk
and sing loudly to the radio. This is us screaming
into the abyss together. We cross the threshold
like we did when we got back from our elopement. 

In the bedroom, I see you
cup your breasts. Even as I step barefooted behind you
I know you are ocean-faced again. I know the worry
because I have carried it for years. In my hands
I hold yours, pull them slowly away from questions
we can’t answer yet. I pull your hands toward me,
toward certainty. I am going to relive this with you.


"HOME"

Of all the things I wondered about on this land, I wondered the hardest about the seduction of certain geographies that feel like home — not by story or blood but merely by their forms and colors. How our perceptions are our only internal map of the world, how there are places that claim you and places that warn you away. How you can fall in love with the light. The complex human eye harvests light. It perceives seven to ten million colors through a synaptic flash: one-tenth of a second from retina to brain. Homo sapiens gangs up to 70 percent of its sense receptors solely for vision, to anticipate danger and recognize reward, but also—more so—for beauty. The gyre that pulls this sunrise ocean moves west from Africa across the equator then caresses this thumb of land on Mexico’s flank. The Gulf Stream carries the warm waters farther north. Like the ocean currents, airflow also moves in a circular pattern, captive to the earth’s rotation, pulled one way or the other on either side of the equator: the Coriolis effect. This force can act upon the spiraling of water down drains, counterclockwise if you are in the Northern Hemisphere, clockwise if you are south of the equator. We are still in the Northern Hemisphere but just barely. My quest for drain behavior reassures me that we will not be flung off the spinning globe—you can never be too sure. On a flight to Australia once, when the airplane was precisely over the equator, I rushed to the airplane’s lavatory and filled the sink with water. Then I pulled the plug to see which way the water would circle the drain, hoping for some sort of momentous turmoil in the physics of deflection. When you venture well beyond home, it is important to assess the territory.


"ROCK, HUNTING"

Wet stone,
cold on the lake shore, edged and coarse. 

The stone is my body 
in the bed of a new lover – 
the stone waits. Between the soft machine of your tongue
and the grit of your teeth.

What does it mean
to tumble? Silent direction in the arch of a spine,
in the loss of time, the waves,
the stripping of exterior
down to bare
nerve.

Wet stone,
naked, a glistening wound, constellation of scars – 
navigation implies destination,
and a desire to be there.


"THE SPACE BETWEEN"

You cannot quit me so quickly
There's no hope in you, for me
No corner you could squeeze me?
But I got all the time for you, love

The space between
The tears we cry
Is the laughter - keeps us coming back for more
The space between
The wicked lies we tell
In hope to keep safe from the pain

But will I hold you again?
These fickle, fuddled words confuse me
Like 'Will it rain today?'
Waste the hours with talking, talking
These twisted games we're playing

We're strange allies
With warring hearts
What a wild-eyed beast you be
The space between
The wicked lies we tell
In hope to keep safe from the pain

Will I hold you again?
Will I hold...
Look at us spinning out in
The madness of a roller coaster
You know you went off like
A devil in a church
In the middle of a crowded room
All we can do, my love
Is hope we don't take this ship down

The space between
Where you smile and hide
Is where you'll find me if I get to go
The space between
The bullets in our firefight
Is where I'll be hiding, waiting for you
The rain that falls
Splashed in your heart
Ran like sadness down the window into your room
The space between
Our wicked lies
Is where we hope to keep safe from pain
Take my hand
'Cause we're walking out of here
Oh, right out of here
Is all we need dear
The space between
What's wrong and right
Is where you'll find me hiding, waiting for you
The space between
Your heart and mind
Is a space we'll fill with time
The space between
The tears we cry is the laughter keeps us coming back for more
The space between
Our wicked lies where we hope to keep safe from pain
The space between
The space between 


"FIGURING"

The richest relationships are often those that don’t fit neatly into the preconceived slots we have made for the archetypes we imagine would populate our lives—the friend, the lover, the parent, the sibling, the mentor, the muse. We meet people who belong to no single slot, who figure into multiple categories at different times and in different magnitudes. We then must either stretch ourselves to create new slots shaped after these singular relationships, enduring the growing pains of self-expansion, or petrify. Lives interweave with other lives, and out of the tapestry arise hints at answers to questions that raze to the bone of life: What are the building blocks of character, of contentment, of lasting achievement? How does a person come into self-possession and sovereignty of mind against the tide of convention and unreasoning collectivism? Does genius suffice for happiness, does distinction, does love?


"PILLAR"

I remember when the church was a castle,
the glow of the stained glass, broken faces,
all the crowns floating softly
somewhere above. Holograms. The velvet and the tile,
somewhere between
a bedroom and a music hall.

The stairs that ascended were hidden
behind too many doors – 
no white light just dust,
a spiral of warped boards,
and where the ceiling opened, a bell
in the shape of a breast, blocking out the sky.

A steeple is a pillar
of sound and shadow. Brick and marble.
The remnant trunk of a German pine tree in a forest 
full of lost people. This loft is the belly of the sylph,
a heaven where all we do is wait
for a small bite of apple.

Sky is sweet, 
so far from the fire and salt. Looking back
a rose grows in the mortar, impossible, sharp –
the stronghold of childhood. Ruins. 

Who would sacrifice me on this altar?
Here I am. An offering of nerve.


"ONLY THE GOOD DIE YOUNG"

Come out Virginia, don't let me me wait
You Catholic girls start much too late
But sooner or later it comes down to fate
I might as well be the one
They showed you a statue and told you to pray
They built you a temple and locked you away
But they never told you the price that you pay
For things that you might have done…
Only the good die young

You might have heard I run with a dangerous crowd
We ain't too pretty we ain't too proud
We might be laughing a bit too loud
But that never hurt no one
Come on Virginia show me a sign
Send up a signal I'll throw you the line
The stained-glass curtain you're hiding behind
Never lets in the sun
And only the good die young

You got a nice white dress and a party on your confirmation
You got a brand new soul
And a cross of gold
But Virginia they didn't give you quite enough information
You didn't count on me
When you were counting on your rosary

They say there's a heaven for those who will wait
Some say it's better but I say it ain't
I'd rather laugh with the sinners than cry with the saints
Sinners are much more fun…
And only the good die young

You say your mother told you all that I could give you was a reputation
She never cared for me
But did she ever say a prayer for me?


"THE DINER ISN’T A CHURCH"

Friends, playing cards at the table,
all the refills are empty, 	we are empty
and this is theater, 
slick, spilled in the night, 	every night
a stage of stained carpet and a salad bar,
a shine on the seats from unmoving people – 
it’s just a shift. 

I have a pirate crush on our waitress
who smells like cigarettes and Secret deodorant,
who has sleeves of tattoos and chewed nails, a ring
on every finger. I see the spread of her hand
beneath the tray. Her smile is white like florescent lights
and speaks of lost treasure, and her shoes say she walks 
everywhere, her legs say she walks everywhere. 

I put all the paper rings on the edge of the table, 
	 an altar, 
	 an offering, 
	 a number on a napkin
laid carefully over the leftover chicken strips,
laid carefully. Uno,
someone says – my cards, two, are blue,
bent at the corners. The game is over. Filthy habit.

Outside the air is clear, and I see the waitress
taking out the trash: 
the dumpster is covered in grease, and I want to be
				          covered in her tattoos
but I walk away, and hope she cleans the table herself – 
but my phone never rings, we never vibrate,
we just keep praying to the management
for something different.


"TOURING"

I think about prison and 
I think about celebrity, 
how so many have freedom stolen and 
others casually give it away – 
how do you trade home for strange tables? 
How do you give up navigation 
for cabs on strange streets? 
How do you surrender life, 
not to love, but strangers 
in a strange world?

"STOCISM"

Live a good life. If there are gods and they are just, then they will not care how devout you have been, but will welcome you based on the virtues you have lived by. If there are gods, but unjust, then you should not want to worship them. If there are no gods, then you will be gone, but will have lived a noble life that will live on in the memories of your loved ones. Think of yourself as dead. You have lived your life. Now, take what's left and live it properly. What doesn't transmit light creates its own darkness. All of us are creatures of a day; the rememberer and the remembered alike. All is ephemeral—both memory and the object of memory. The time is at hand when you will have forgotten everything; and the time is at hand when all will have forgotten you. Always reflect that soon you will be no one, and nowhere. 


"UNDER THE STAINED GLASS EYES OF MARY"

Echo. Sound off the tile 
in the high-school stairwell 
almost swallowed her voice. 
She said my name. My name. She said 
God was having a movie night at the Lutheran Church. 
I should come. I should come. 

I don’t remember the movie, 
but I remember her sideways on a beanbag chair, 
curve in curve. After, I remember how we sat on the tan stone stairs. 
The stairs. We sat and she found a map 
to that place in my mouth from where I spoke. I spoke.
Invitation. Invocation. Incantation. 

I could see my words in her eyes, 
the spring sun in the blush of her skin. Her skin, 
warm hands on a cool day wrapped around mine, 
filled with breath. Watermelon chapstick. Chapstick.
She leaned in, and the world disappeared in the halo of her hair – 
she kissed me. Kissed me in the sight of God.

My smile was metal and rubber bands,
but for the first time there was absolutely no shame. No shame.


"NAME"

And even though the moment passed me by
I still can't turn away
'Cause all the dreams you never thought you'd lose
Got tossed along the way
And letters that you never meant to send
Get lost or thrown away
And now we're grown up orphans
That never knew their names
We don't belong to no one
That's a shame
You could hide beside me
Maybe for a while
And scars are souvenirs you never lose
The past is never far
Did you lose yourself somewhere out there
Did you get to be a star?
And don't it make you sad to know that life
Is more than who we are?
We grew up way too fast
And now there's nothing to believe
And reruns all become our history
A tired song keeps playing on a tired radio
I think about you all the time
But I don't need the same
It's lonely where you are, come back down
And I won't tell 'em your name


"FALLING IN LOVE WITH GLACIERS"

I met a shell of a mountain who knew she was finished Claimed she grew up from a grain of sand But every year wider she bloomed a little bit longer To the roof of the sky with outstretched hands She made friends with the sun, shared enemies with no one Counted weeks like she should have counted days And swallowed handfuls of night so she could sleep tight And turn her thoughts from its stone cold ways And this was the beginning, the start of the ending You can't die from a broken heart But from the time the sun rose To the space where it fell away She would love, and it wouldn't take part And every, every day she would echo, echo In every single way she should let go, let go But it had her in its sights, Cupid's icy arrows But so, so what So she caught every one with her heart like it was her duty It walked the wrong, wrong way down her one way plan She was surrounded by forests, rivers and beauty Until that glacier froze over the land And so she blamed herself hated her wealth She was born at too young of an age And every night, every night, every night Every night her dreams were touched by witches fingers Until her heart was caged With every morning spent not caring if she cares or not Sleeping in the melt and mud, waiting for the earth to rot Burying herself alive she scrapes the hole that it left open Empty as her very heart, that mountain was all broken All broken, that mountain was all broken Now I can see that her Her blood's red and she's got feelings And they always get spilled both without thinking Without thinking, without thinking Without thinking, I can see that her Her blood's red and she's got feelings And they always get spilled both without thinking Without thinking, they weren't thinking Without thinking, I can see that her Her blood's red and she's got feelings And they always get spilled both without thinking Without thinking, I wasn't thinking Without thinking, I can see that our Our blood's red and we got feelings And we always spill both bloods without thinking Without thinking, what were we thinking We weren't thinking, what were we thinking of


"THE BOX WAS BURIED ON A T-ROAD"

I remember the summer
we jumped off the roof
into the hot tub. It started
with a letter. She sent me 
Goethe by mail, asking to stay.

She drove three hours
before I even had an answer
written. In black 
mascara running down her face.
Wet sunflowers on her yellow shirt.

Her cheeks were a map,
a legend she told her parents,
the key to unlock rage. 
She said, “There’s so much red – 
I think hell has always been here.”

We held each other,
shaking in the driveway, trembling,
knowing tears. Grief. Medicine. Tears are
symbols of regret, sadness, pity.
Faustian emotions. Ending emotions.
 
I’d never sold my soul before,
but the gravel called. Remember,
in summer, a deal sounds like the Top 40.  
How do you choose a crossroads 
when everything intersects?

She deserved to be happy,
that was my philosophy then,
we all did. We believed. There was no demon, 
just a pitchfork in a far field,
just a stolen bottle of butterscotch schnapps.

She smiled, and the moon smiled
a thin grin, thousands of miles away.
The corner of her mouth, a small twitch,
her hand and mine on the bottle. She said,
“I wish I could see the ocean.”

We stood on the shingles,
staring at the light beneath the whirlpools.
“Thank you”, she said. We jumped together.  
I remember the cascade from our cannonball.
She laughed, like a child. She glittered.


"REDUCING DEPTH TO ZERO"

Dance is vector.

Depth, the distance
between two people, shifts as bodies add bodies.

She is dancing, and her body says bodies belong together. 
Movement doesn’t happen in a single direction, 
it is not isolated – the bass pumps, and she is behind me,
all arms, all hands. Follow me. Follow me. Hips.

Music is gasoline, the mirrorball a lit match. She rolls
with the kick drum, and I fall into her like a bed.

Thump and rattle. This unity is an anthem,
and we are now – in this dark room 
full of breath and punch and damp clothes – 
alone.

She adds me.


"NEW FIGURES"

Beyond any human lifetime, and often even within it, what is recorded is what is remembered, the records gradually displacing the actuality of lived events. And what is recorded is a fraction of what is thought, felt, acted out, lived—a fraction at best edited by the very act of its selection, at worst warped by rationalization or fictionalized by a deliberate retelling of reality. The stories we tell about our own lives, to others but especially to ourselves, we tell in order to make our lives livable. Even the farthest seers can't bend their gaze beyond their era's horizon of possibility, but the horizon shifts with each incremental revolution as the human mind peers outward to take in nature, then turns inward to question its own givens. We sieve the world through the mesh of these certitudes, tautened by nature and culture, but every once in a while—whether by accident or conscious effort—the wire loosens and the kernel of revolution slips through.


"NEW GROWTH"

In the woods I am
a tree. A cemetery, a church
taking offerings of breath – tired bodies
inside me. Birds
in my lungs. Breath between
laughter and sigh.

I am here to be worshiped
but I see 
the hunting knife, in your mouth
the drill and spile. On your knees
you fill me
with holes – I am emptied. 

New growth
is not enough to live. 
I am always falling
out. No autumn. No sleep.
Where can I go
with roots so deep?


"CRITIQUE OF PURE REASON"

Look closely. The beautiful may be small. All our knowledge begins with the senses, proceeds then to the understanding, and ends with reason. There is nothing higher than reason. Rules for happiness: something to do, someone to love, something to hope for. Space and time are the framework within which the mind is constrained to construct its experience of reality. The light dove, in free flight cutting through the air the resistance of which it feels, could get the idea that it could do even better in airless space. Likewise, Plato abandoned the world of the senses because it posed so many hindrances for the understanding, and dared to go beyond it on the wings of the ideas, in the empty space of pure understanding. 


"BETWEEN POINTS ON A PLANE"

Somewhere in the night the aurora fills my eyes – 
this is north right? The shine and the cold
and the caribou. I am part of this
migration in the eventide, going 

somewhere else. I remember the sun,
how it’s not like the pins of light,
distant, on the dark blanket.
There used to be warmth

somewhere. A place with landmarks,
topography, legends. I can count
my ribs, needles discovering orientation.
Here I am a compass.

Can you find direction in a dream? 


"TWIN PEAKS LOVE SONG"

I saw you.
I saw you.
I saw you.

I remember now the music playing
at the bar. You were a spy, you were sex
when you danced, three songs, all curves
when you cried. You were obsession
in the mornings. I could tell
how empty you were
by how much coffee you drank. It was dark
when we braided our legs, soft
music played through 
the window like a radio – 
leitmotifs that left me frayed
until the light poured in.

I don’t know what force swallowed
your spirit in the night –  
I couldn’t kiss you
when you became a rag doll. 
Couldn’t fix you – I moved on and drank
more coffee. Honeyed.

Where was I now?


"KIERKEGAARD"

Life can only be understood backwards; but it must be lived forwards. The most painful state of being is remembering the future, particularly the one you'll never have. People demand freedom of speech as a compensation for the freedom of thought which they seldom use. The most common form of despair is not being who you are. The greatest hazard of all, losing one’s self, can occur very quietly in the world, as if it were nothing at all. No other loss can occur so quietly; any other loss - an arm, a leg, five dollars, a wife, etc. - is sure to be noticed. I see it all perfectly; there are two possible situations — one can either do this or that. My honest opinion and my friendly advice is this: do it or do not do it — you will regret both. 


"A LOG IS JUST PAPER BEFORE IT’S MADE"

What’s it like to have half each foot
in the grave of creation?

What terrors and marvels
pass through your thin frame,
nutrients in the root maze,
spray from the waterfall?

Receptive skin and that damned stick
that never quite fit in your hand.

The bark is dark, but the core is light – 
I’ve learned now
you were a miracle, give me a map
to where your tree grows.


"SCIENCE VS. ROMANCE"

I used to think If I could realise I'd die Then I would be a lot nicer Used to believe In a lot more Now I just see straight ahead That's not to say I don't have good times But as for my days I spend them waiting Crash sites keep me up at night Impact, division It splits in two Directly underneath you As for those things That act as markers in your life But in between you can't remember And so it seems That you've grown up and over me And these silly things I like to dwell on Test sites keep me up at night Chainlink and metres I talk to you It's cold out there, but I'm telling you I'm lonely too Facts versus romance You go and call yourself the boss But we're not robots inside a grid Text versus romance You go and add it all you want Still we're not robots inside a grid Zeroes and ones


"I FEEL MY BODY COULD GROW A FOREST"

She takes a picture on my phone -
me at the lake, her on the other side. From here
she is an arm's length away. My shadow of my arm 
stretches over the grains of sand, 
and I think about my skin. 

I think how there is nothing in my pocket
but dust. Not enough motes to count
for every secret I already carry, all this dead skin
and I don't know how to show it to anyone.

She is in her bikini. She is ready for this. She is
all the water. I am the driest person I know.

I stand on the shore, wanting to tell her
I like the picture, she makes me feel beautiful.

When she yells for me to get in the water, I get in,
and for a moment we are part of the same place,
I can feel how the molecules slide and wrap us together,
a sheet in the wind, a slick knot, a sloppy braid. I watch
the sunburn slide off her shoulders. 
I know how that feels.

I ask her if she's busy tomorrow, and she is,
so I let her go, and I blow away. At night
I see the picture on my phone, and I plan to call her.

I still plan to call her. I have so much to share
when my tongue is wet enough. 


"OZYMANDIAS"

I met a traveller from an antique land
Who said: `Two vast and trunkless legs of stone
Stand in the desert. Near them, on the sand,
Half sunk, a shattered visage lies, whose frown,
And wrinkled lip, and sneer of cold command,
Tell that its sculptor  well those passions read
Which yet survive, stamped on these lifeless things,
The hand that mocked them and the heart that fed.
And on the pedestal these words appear --
"My name is Ozymandias, king of kings:
Look on my works, ye Mighty, and despair!"
Nothing beside remains. Round the decay
Of that colossal wreck, boundless and bare
The lone and level sands stretch far away.' 


"THIRD EYE"

Today I found my soul I felt it die inside of me, yeah So I turn to you Life is like that you know I have your face in a photo in high school When you were alive, but that's all I have And I can't remember who I was myself then And it doesn't help Still I looked to you as a friend To tell me Who we are now, who we are It's who we are now, who we are Where does time go now on a wake for young souls? To tell me Who we are now, who we are It's who we are now, who we are Where does time go now on a wake for young souls? Like a lullaby you sing oh ooh oh ooh oh ooh Well the wind that blows It's blowing colder And the child that grows She's growing older And the friends we know They'll turn a shoulder But the friends we know They're growing colder so It's who we are now, who we are It's who we are now, who we are Where does time go now on a wake for young souls? You tell me, who we are now, who we are It's who we are now, who we are Oh no, on a wake for young souls Where's my soul? Where's my soul? Where's my soul? Where's my soul? Where's my soul? Cycle of the moon brings blood to the woman In the blood of the woman brings birth of a child Child grow up Keep forgetting something Birth of a child comes someplace while you Even grey days beat the shade to wean Unbodied unsouled unheard unseen Let the gift be grown in the time to call our own Let the gift be sewn before the windows closing Truth is natural like a wind that blows Follow the direction no matter where it goes So it shall be the earth and the sea Let the truth blow like a hurricane through me Oh ooh oh ooh oh ooh oooh If I've been cold, if I've spoken in anger To have been bold Forgive me You know I don't see your mother Not like before Though she hasn't forgotten She doesn't like to be reminded anymore Annie got married It didn't come without tears Like the day you died I had laughter for these years So it's who we are now, who we are It's who we are now, who we are Where does time go now on a wake for young souls now? It's who we are now, who we are It's who we are now, who we are Whoa oh,on a wake for young souls Other thing we know Are gonna fall away from me Like a grain of sand, slips through a good friend's hand Summer time and the wind is blowin' outside in lower Chelsea And I don't know what I'm doing in this city The sun is always in my eyes It crashes through the windows and I'm sleeping on the couch When I came to visit you That's when I knew that I could never have you I knew that before you did Still I'm the one who's stupid And there's this burning Like there's always been I've never been so alone And I've never been so alive Visions of you on a motorcycle drive by The cigarette ash flies in your eyes and you don't mind, you smile And say the world it doesn't fit with you I don't believe you, you're so serene Careening through the universe, your axis on a tilt You're guiltless and free, I hope you take a piece of me with you And there's things I would like to do that you don't believe in I would like to build something But you'll never see it happen And there's this burnin' Like there's always been I've never been so alone And I've, I've never been so alive And there's this burning There is this burning Where's the soul, I wanna know New York City's evil The surface is everything but I could never do that Someone would see through that And this is the last time, we'll be friends again And I'll get over you, you'll wonder who I am And there's this burning Just like there's always been I've never been so alone, alone And I've and I've, I've never been so alive So alive I go home to the coast, it starts to rain I paddle out on the water alone Taste the salt and taste the pain I'm not thinking of you again Summer dies and swells rise The sun goes down in my eyes See this rolling wave darkly coming To take me home And I've never been so alone And I've never been so alive


"I AM ALSO MADE OF STEEL GIRDERS AND CONCRETE"

Mom talks to me about how bridges connect 
places that are separated from each other.

But when she speaks about Boğaziçi Köprüsü
I can only see the separation, built on top

of separation. It's been about war and death
since the first architect. Hafızam yok.

She's a bridge I want to burn some days,
talk about home as if it's a place

you can never return. In my bed at night,
when I am safe, I dream of telling her

Amsterdam and Istanbul have the same sun:
thuis is een plek die je nooit kunt verlaten. 


“SALT PIECES”

Everything will melt at the bottom of childhood: the road is the salt.

If we empty the glass we won't dissolve-salt will devise new noses to seek us out.
There's another jug to life.

In their fear
they hid it for us, left us to look for it.

There where reality's proud of itself and doesn't age or melt,
I observe myself:

I adhere to falling things because they are fractures of butterflies in a race
God arranged.

And this love that talked so loudly is now ill? How does it assess itself: as a human with
or without exception?


"THE LEVITATION"

It was a boring party, all of us standing around sipping wine and eating meat wrapped in puff pastry or pickled vegetables on toothpicks, all of us with nothing to say even though we’d known each other since high school, when Julie dropped in that she’d levitated at Sandra’s last weekend, at the couples retreat on the island that all of us thought, all of us still thought, was a swingers retreat, and one of us snorted and called Julie a poser, a David-Blaine-wannabe, and Julie said, I didn’t levitate myself you idiot, haven’t you ever seen The Craft, and we all nodded, took a bite of our meat or our vegetable while running through the catalog of previously-viewed movies in our minds, all of us remembering Nicole, the girl who used to write incantations on our lockers in red felt pen and tell us it was blood, the self-professed witch who lit herself on fire in the tenth grade, all of us remembering how badly we wanted to be like her, all of us remembering how paralyzed we’d been by her death, then Wanda, the woman whose house we were at for this reunion, this celebration of thirty years graduated, topped up our glasses and corralled us over to the carpet, this plush white area rug that looked completely untouched, and said, do it, levitate me, and Julie gulped down her wine, set her glass on the window sill, motioned for us to circle around, to do her this solid, and we were hesitant at first, got braver with each person who knelt down around Wanda, like this was a thing that was going to happen, like we were thirteen and sleeping over after a basketball game with a Ouija board and a bottle of shit mix, and we laughed nervously when Wanda told us not to drop her, like we were going to get her off the ground in the first place, and, god, we hoped we did, we hoped we wouldn’t add to her recently-divorced-mid-life-what-the-fuck-am-I-even-doing crisis, a crisis that more of us had experienced than not, a crisis that culminated in obsessive exercise and late night mistakes and reunion planning, and when we all slid our pointer and middle fingers underneath Wanda’s frame, when we all started chanting, light as a feather, stiff as a board, light as a feather, stiff as a board, you could really sense the tension in the room, the intense desire to work together as a team, and for a moment it felt like the magic was going to happen, like we were going to levitate Wanda until she hovered two feet off the ground, her arms crossed against her chest, her hair hanging like curtains from her scalp, but she just lay there, her eyes closed, her chest almost imperceptible in its movement, all of us kneeling around her waiting and waiting for something, anything, to happen.


"THE BRILLIANT DANCE"

So this is odd,
The painful realization
That all has gone wrong
And nobody cares at all,
And nobody cares at all.
So you buried all your lover's clothes
And burned the letters lover wrote,
But it doesn't make it any better.
Does it make it any better?
And the plaster dented from your fist
In the hall where you had your first kiss
Reminds you that the memories will fade.
So this is strange,
Our sidestepping has come to be
A brilliant dance
Where nobody leads at all,
Where nobody leads at all.
And the picture frames are facing down
And the ringing from this empty sound
Is deafening and keeping you from sleep.
And breathing is a foreign task
And thinking's just too much to ask
And you're measuring your minutes by a clock that's blinking eights.
Well, this is incredible.
Starving, insatiable,
Yes, this is love for the first time.
And you'd like to think that you were invincible.
Yeah, well weren't we all once
Before we felt loss for the first time?
Well this is the last time.


"EXTREMELY LOUD AND INCREDIBLY CLOSE"

Sometimes I can hear my bones straining under the weight of all the lives I'm not living. Why didn't I learn to treat everything like it was the last time. My greatest regret was how much I believed in the future. Humans are the only animal that blushes, laughs, has religion, wages war, and kisses with lips. So in a way, the more you kiss with lips, the more human you are. And the more you wage war. What about little microphones? What if everyone swallowed them, and they played the sounds of our hearts through little speakers, which could be in the pouches of our overalls? When you skateboarded down the street at night you could hear everyone's heartbeat, and they could hear yours, sort of like sonar. One weird thing is, I wonder if everyone's hearts would start to beat at the same time, like how women who live together have their menstrual periods at the same time, which I know about, but don't really want to know about. That would be so weird, except that the place in the hospital where babies are born would sound like a crystal chandelier in a houseboat, because the babies wouldn't have had time to match up their heartbeats yet. And at the finish line at the end of the New York City Marathon it would sound like war. I took the world into me, rearranged it, and sent it back out as a question: Do you like me?  


"CRYSTALIZED"

You've applied the pressure to have me crystalized
And you've got the faith, that I could bring paradise
I'll forgive and forget before I'm paralysed
Do I have to keep up the pace to keep you satisfied?

Things have gotten closer to the sun, and I've done things in small doses
So don't think that I'm pushing you away when you're the one that I've kept closest

You don't move slow, I'm taking steps in my direction
The sound resounds, echo, does it lessen your affection? No
You say I'm foolish for pushing this aside
But burn down our home, I won't leave alive

Glaciers have melted to the sea 
Things have gotten closer to the sun
I wish the tide would take me over 
And I've done things in small doses
I've been down onto my knees 
So don't think that I'm pushing you away
And you just keep on getting closer 
When you're the one that I've kept closest

Go slow. Go slow.


"DIRTY / PRETTY"

that little thrill i get / from watching that scene in dirty dancing /
where baby comes to johnny’s room / after saving penny
from the botched abortion /

that little thrill i get / moves like that move they do /
when they start to dance / that dip-swing /
that swayful mirroring / that shake of baby’s curls

that look almost like mine /

that also look like vivian’s in pretty woman /
after the blonde wig leaves forever / releasing hair
that’s some kind of red jungle / spreading and spreading /
a reforestation of herself / against a backdrop of ’80s hits and crones in pearls /

that little thrill i get at her hyena laugh /
in the iconic scene where edward snaps the lid shut
on the quarter-million-dollar necklace /

and suddenly she is a beacon in the hotel lobby /
which isn’t new when you remember the scene /
where they kick her from the dress shop in beverly hills /

just like it isn’t new that
i hear her hyena laugh in mine /
her beacon in mine /

and then i think of how i learned / that i am autistic
from old parenting books on my mom’s shelf /

and how i’m really not like these gals /
whose lovers are played by patrick swayze and richard gere /
who are beacons partly because they’re in love /
and know how to say so

and i think comparatively of how i used to cry /
just telling the bookshelf story to my own lovers /
as if they all knew before i did /
obvious like the laugh / or the curls /

obvious like a watermark
running down the center of me /
well meaning but awkward in shape /
awkward in motion /

how it jerks in parallel to our lover’s body /
endlessly unsure of the steps /

the watermark asks / how to feel safe in the sway and dip and shake /
how to live well under the blanket of strange, tender music /
how to dance the right way in love /

i don’t know how to answer all that /
but i always go back to that scene / to that little thrill i get /
from watching johnny and baby get together /
while the man on the radio asks / if i feel like crying /

and i answer as if i’m there with all of them / i say yeah, man /
but first we need to rewind / give me that mirror one more time /

so i can remember how somebody / wanted to make a movie
about strange women in love / about beacons / shining /
always unwillingly, radiantly shining /

how somebody made these gals / these movies /
in my image /


"DROWNING SYMPHONIES"

This is the home we built: the one we placed on the wings of butterflies so tenderly it collapsed into their veins—the red, bloodied hope and blue from their eyes: my dreams the doorway we’d walk through. In this place, there are ravens in the walls: shadows hang from the chandelier. In this place we all speak the same language: count bruises and find pretty things in the sand before the ocean swallows it whole. Offerings of the body: one for sorrow, one for the psalm I let sink into my skin. The one my mother sang when she placed flowers in my hair. One for the peaceful dreams that stopped coming. In this place, I am too much with caged birds—with breathing in the dark. Ask me—what lives inside my bones: what carries the body in dreams. What happens when our bodies tire of counting—tire of building walls that keep collapsing. I can hear prayers slip down cold throats in the walls: ravens carry peace tucked under their wings. I haven’t yet learned how to open my eyes in the dark. How to pluck feathers from the floorboards. Tell me which room of my body you’ve wondered into—which of my bones is under your tongue. What color is your favorite—everything looks red. Ask me—who soaks up the blood once we’re gone: once there are no more pieces of my body to offer.


"HONNE ON YOUTUBE"

Would you like it if I told you
I imagine you, pretty
much any time I watched a kiss
on a TV show or even a commercial, 
or watching tourist couples
high on each other. I keep thinking
it might freak you out a little
that while I'm the main character
in every book I read,
you're the love interest,
even if it's only headcannon.

Someday, if I'm brave 
as some Chosen One, I might 
touch your hand in a way that isn't
painting your nails 
when your fingers shake, might
tell you about even Mom and Dad
still kiss, and how 
that could kind of be us. Maybe,
if we had some wine
I would even show you this poem.


"PROSE POEM #1"

We can never know what to want, because, living only one life, we can neither compare it with our previous lives nor perfect it in our lives to come. A tattoo is a true poetic creation, and is always more than meets the eye. As a tattoo is grounded on living skin, so its essence emotes a poignancy unique to the mortal human condition. I like too many things and get all confused and hung-up running from one falling star to another til I drop. And now, my poor old woman, why are you crying so bitterly? It is autumn. The leaves are falling from the trees like burning tears- the wind howls. Why must you mimic them? By living our lives, we nurture death. All we can do is see it through to the end and learn something from it, but what we learn will be no help in facing the next sorrow that comes to us without warning.


"YOUR NICKNAME"

We're standing silent on paddleboards
and I can see your sweat. I wonder
if you can see mine, the effort it takes
to just stand and not fall in. The water
is sparkling, and so are you. 

I know, underneath, 
the stones and their weight, discarded
trash. But also, lost rings,
gardens and pearls, things forgotten
or not discovered, yet.

But we aren't exploring today.
I wish we were. Finding
new ways to enjoy each other's company.
I tell you I'm too hot, and disappear,
and wonder if you follow 
because you want me, 
or if you just need to cool down, too.

When we pull our boards and bodies
to the shore, we're both sparkling,
water diamonds, sand glitter. I want 
to tell you everything 
I've wondered today, but instead
just ask if you want to grab
a bite to eat before going home.


"A MAN OF SORROWS DREAMS IN SUNFLOWER"
 
He held his severed ear in his hand. Divorced now from sound, it looked lonely. It hardly weighed more than a whisper, a lone word of pain cradled in the palm of his paint-flecked hand. There was nothing that could be done. O sacred head, now wounded. In his dreams, a sunflower blooms from his wound, its petals like sunbeams. He is haloed with light. Beatific, he awakens. He is the artist. He is the art. The palette is his plate, his brush his spoon. The palette is his palate, the taste of turpentine thick and yellow on his tongue. He will grow more sunflowers—out of his eyes, his mouth, his remaining ear. Hands pull the brush from his own. They want to starve him. Yellow paint scars his palms, drips in gold down his forearms. They are calling for the doctor. He does not want the doctor. He would like the florist. Could they call the florist? He would like to lay his head on the florist’s lap and say, please clip this flower from my head. O sacred head, what glory. He would like to place the sunflower in a vase and set it there, in the rectangle of light on the floor. He would like it to keep him company.


"YOU TALK OF GREEN I TALK OF DEATH"

The farms and dikes 
and the hands that made them
were all adopted for war.

If you build the walls high enough,
the water can't get in. Unless you want it. 
Sounds like troop movements, 
sounds like a trap. Fact:
most of the land we live on
has some blood in it, scabs from battles,
polders, solid with need. The need 
for more to touch 
and less to remember.

But bogs border everything,
and at the bottom you'll find seagrass
growing again. Covered stones, waiting
for the pump and the plow and, always,
more blood.


"HOMES"

We only know wishes if they’ve come true. An eagle’s nest, photographed for fifteen years in a frame of jack pines, cascades like ashes of bone. The darkest part of the forest a maple grove in summer. In autumn, the brightest. Mauve slippers billow like wildebeest rushing a river. I hear rustling, a trot lighter than leaves, & I wish for deer. When it comes true—the deer—I think I am dissatisfied, my heels slouching against roots like thresholds. I’m opening a door & another. You make a wish, earn a truth, place a bet. Even the hinges of doors, circadian rhythms of turning, break their backs beneath promise. That’s it. At war with the light is more light. Every time I leave a building, I don’t notice the exit signs, budding stems rife with guarantee. I’m full of assumptions. I want to say a country looming with bougainvillea can be found & not made. You’d tell me there is no difference in the bones of a promise or a broken arm. Make your fucking wish—if ghosts are what powder a house with presence, then the body is a promise for disappearance. Every dead leaf is a dead leaf. Every branch pregnant with spring bears a womb for future ghosts. Every finger on your hand is a finger on your hand. You don’t need a bird to make a wishbone. You just need to ask for flight. I’m telling you, I’m telling you, reach out & hold onto my breath. I’m losing you because lips don’t keep people together. The vines of Russian olives are ready to take us, & I’m tired of walking through this swamp. We have nothing keeping us anywhere.


"SONG 41"

Come and see
I swear by now I'm playing time against my troubles
Oh, I'm coming slow, but speeding
Do you wish a dance and while
I'm in the front
The play on time is won
Oh, but the difficulty's coming here

I will go in this way
And find my own way out
I won't tell you to begin
But I'm coming to much more
Me
All at once, the ghosts come back
Reeling in you now
Oh, what if they came down crushing?
Remember when I used to play for
All of the loneliness that nobody
Notices now
I'm begging slow, I'm coming here

Only waiting
I wanted to stay
I wanted to play
I wanted to love you
I'm only this far
And only tomorrow leads the way
I'm coming waltzing back and moving into your head

Please
I wouldn't pass this by
Oh, I wouldn't take any more than
What sort of man goes by?
I will bring water
Why won't you ever be glad?
It melts into wonder
I came in praying for you
Why won't you run
Into the rain and play
And let tears splash all over you? 


"ARCHITECTS AND ENGINEERS"

I live on the second floor, of an old row house down in Baltimore, Watching all the colors and the shapes, standing tall up here, My face against the window, These moments they can never last, Like a sad old man with his photographs, Wishing for the things he cannot change, Standing tall up here, My face against the window. So the architects and the engineers Build the monuments Make the souvenirs We are occupants It's a trap this town We are burning up We are fading out We are shooting stars


"LAKEDEEP"

The lake holds my hand when I go to it. Water knows
I am not a tourist. I echo across the waves -
I don't belong. I know the story
about how teeth were planted in the ground
against its will. How the inlet lodged in its throat,
even in the driest season. The waves and flow
keep carving my toungue like good engineers keep building
islands in the shallowest depths. It was never meant to be 
here for so long, but people depend on it, now. Someday
it will evaporate completely, or 
it will eat the shoreline, the city. Free itself.


"HALAH"

Well I think I see another side Maybe just another light that shines And I look over now through the door And I still belong to no one else Maybe I hold you to blame for all the reasons that you left. And close my eyes 'till I see your surprise And you're leaving before my time. Baby won't you change your mind? Surely don't stay long I'm missing you now. It's like I told you I'm over you somehow Before I close the door I need to hear you say goodbye. Baby won't you change your mind? I guess that hasn't changed someone Maybe nobody else could understand I guess that you believe you are a woman And that I am someone else's man But just before I see that you leave I want you to hold on to things that you said Baby I wish I were dead. Surely don't stay long I'm missing you now. It's like I told you I'm over you somehow Before I close the door I need to hear you say goodbye Baby won't you change your mind?


"GENETIC TRANSLATION"

I process everything my mother says 
three times. I try to ask her 
about the future.

Her mouth is a crescent, cutting me off
telling me boşver. But I can't. I think 
about Elsa and the ice and the mountain,
I think of a castle above this castle
I already have. This is the dream 
in English. In Dutch it's laat het gaan,
and I think about school, and the yard,
and people I thought were friends
telling me pride isn't worth a fistfight.

But at home, I think in Turkish
first. I think about how I think about
my mother's words. How the cycle starts
and ends with me loving her more 
than she loves me. I'm too tired to push
the point. I choke, my own mouth,
crescent enough, walking away but always
telling her seni seviyorum.  


"NOTHING"

I am going to write about nothing. Nothing at all. Did you ever think hard and say, what is nothing? Nothing is really nothing at all to try to figure out. Look, a comet comes down from nothing crashes into the earth and the earth is scattered to the winds of nothing in little pieces and suppose I survive and you survive and we begin our journey through nothing. How would you like that? I would like that if I could be conscious of it. It would be a great experience to travel up and down and to the left and the right through nothing at all and just keep traveling around and seeing nothing but distant stars and feeling nothing’neath my feet and just flying about through nothing. If I could live through it I would enjoy it. But soon I would get hungry and I would want to eat something but there is nothing in the line of something in nothing, so that I would starve to death and then I would be traveling through nothing but then I myself would not know about it so that I would not enjoy it. Because enjoying is a sensation of living, as you know, and to enjoy you must live and all that, etc. And so it amounts to nothing, nothing, nothing. And soon I guess things would get at me and I would soon dissolve, and then absolve into nothing and become part of nothing. I know some day I will be nothing. (Think hard I say to myself. Think very hard and consider yourself nothing.) I will be nothing someday because I will be part of the dust of the earth which will scatter to the winds of nothing (not the four winds of the earth, but the sextillion winds of nothing) and I will scatter and fly about through nothing and be nothing. Maybe—a million years from now. And I will be nothing. I try to think hard and imagine myself nothing, but I am too much alive to think myself nothing so that despite the fact that I know its inevitability, I feel as if I’ll always go on, but I know better. And when the dust of the earth will scatter to the winds of nothing, then even the particles of dust themselves will begin to dissect themselves and they themselves will emulate the earth’s big act of dissolving and dissolve themselves. Then the particles of the dust particles will in turn dissolve, and this process will continue a million billion times over and over again until the particles will become so small that they will not be far from nothing. Then when eternity ends, the process of making all the particles of the earth into nothing will have been completed. And so I say eternity will never end, because that is what it means. So I look at it this way: When I look into the sky and see nothing (space is nothing) I should kneel down and weep with joy at the marvelousness of such perfect nothingness. Can you imagine how many billions of aeons nothing had to go through before it reached its stage of nothingness? I imagine it because I just found out that the earth will never quite completely be nothing.


"NAUTIULS CUP"

We drink ocean’s meat from silver shells
and sunshine from the sea
Nacre, lacre, gold and glass
melt in my throat –
odd that snow doesn’t

We drink
round and round to the slimming center

You outdoing me once more, I remember
you, legs braced straight against the world,
lips pressed against the sky
as the aurora fell in your mouth

Something you tried was your poison
I don’t know which or I would try it myself

(myself in museums looking at a Lalique
perfume bottle empty, through a pane of our older tastes,
it would be nothing for me to swallow the divider whole
but I only look. I can smell
sandalwood musk and rose oil greasing my tongue)

You, rinsing memory’s river from fistfuls
of soil into my mouth
You spitting wind and ink

(myself at a tarot reading
told to watch out for the sister of cups
years too late to avoid you
or protect you)

The pthalos all taste like grays now
the verdants too
but sometimes, lips pressed against the river
I can still taste your joy


"CONFESSION TWO"

I want to commit myself to memory. I want to live forever, but is that so bad? I want to hold a newborn baby in my arms, my face impossibly close to theirs and say Hi little one, welcome to earth, I’ll be your guide for a while. I want to hold my baby and realize that I can't live forever but a being that looks a little like me might. I want my hair to grow so I can chop it all off, lick my lips, rub my bald head for luck, and walk away from what used to be into a vast nothing. I want to watch a time lapse video of a big, orange pumpkin decomposing. I want to go to the landfill and breathe in that rancid stench of refuse, of excrement, of our collective failings. I want to let a New York City subway rat scurry over my feet. I want to go back in time and eat a purple elmer’s glue stick. I want to huff a red Mr. Sketch marker and get high off the artificial cherry scent of my 1st grade classroom. 


"THE DREAMING TREE"

Come and see
I swear by now I'm playing time against my troubles
Oh, I'm coming slow, but speeding
Do you wish a dance and while
I'm in the front
The play on time is won
Oh, but the difficulty's coming here

I will go in this way
And find my own way out
I won't tell you to begin
But I'm coming to much more
Me
All at once, the ghosts come back
Reeling in you now
Oh, what if they came down crushing?
Remember when I used to play for
All of the loneliness that nobody
Notices now
I'm begging slow, I'm coming here

Only waiting
I wanted to stay
I wanted to play
I wanted to love you
I'm only this far
And only tomorrow leads the way
I'm coming waltzing back and moving into your head

Please
I wouldn't pass this by
Oh, I wouldn't take any more than
What sort of man goes by?
I will bring water
Why won't you ever be glad?
It melts into wonder
I came in praying for you
Why won't you run
Into the rain and play
And let tears splash all over you? 


"THE DREAM OF CORRECTION"

He does not like me. He likes me, but he doesn’t like me like that. He has liked every other girl in our large friend group “like that,” regardless of their availability. My lack of desirability allows me to talk to him without worrying that he’s taking it the wrong way, but I also put on more mascara. I have a boyfriend and I do not want to trade him in—I’m not even attracted to my friend—but I also do not want to be the only girl excluded from this free-for-all. He will not stay in a room alone with me. He finds a reason to leave when I arrive. I sequester our friends and whisper at them, I don’t know why he doesn’t like me, alluding to situation after situation, hoping someone will suggest maybe he is avoiding you because you are the one he likes the most. Nobody does. But I catalog avoidance as potential, and I dream of power.


"ACROSS THE ANVIL AND BURNING"

Come now, sit. There,
where the iron meets the shallow ground.
Stretch
your skin over the cinders, lick up the ash until
you are grey and smeared with a thousand deceased flames.

Now, are you ready, my girl? Oh
you are ready.
Let me temper you in this forge
pour heat into you, melt
under my blows and my gaze and the
workings of my fingers.

I would smoke you
salt you
render you.
Let the warmth rise til your sweat is slick and
sizzling down your back
between your thighs.

I would sear you with my fingerprints,
and study how the ash marks change as you
writhe.
You will writhe.

When you are complete
face up among the coals and heaving
I will slip sugar pieces and chips of ruby
grapefruit between your flushed lips.
I will cool your gullet with iced wine
bathe you in cherries and break
shards of sandalwood against your skin
so its scent bubbles and unfurls,
so I can taste the holiness in the air.

My girl, my love, you are now so sharp
you split
my tongue.


"THIS IS HOW YOUR LOSE A HEART"

You take a scythe, point its sharp end above your sternum, and let its curved blade snag your primary veins. It’s faster that way, yeah? A firmer thrash on the coffin’s final nail. Better than staring at your grandmother on a hospital bed, half her body paralyzed with the other half writhing in pain. You point at her knee joint and drawl the words ‘Does it hurt here?’ followed by ‘Please tell me where it hurts, Ma’ trying to keep the jolly lilt on your tone to prevent a possible cause of worry on her face and yet quickly recoil over the churning inside your stomach as you see her open her mouth, drawing the words with her tongue but only a series of grunts and incoherent burbles pass through. You bite the inside of your cheeks to stop the imminent surge of tears as she looks at you, the words always hanging at the tip of her tongue but never coming out.


"BLUEPRINT"

The poem I want to build needs a vestibule
Inviting all who wish to be bidden
Welcome: an ample parallelogram
With a skylight open to a patch of stars.

Horses, of course there will be horses
Gathering in darkness
Under those stars in a field of grass
Extending far enough for an eye to grasp

Bounty uncontainable. A passageway
Will lead to a loft for the hay
And a wing to accommodate the rain.
Where will I store a roomful of ash?

In a crypt in the cellar,
Adjoining vaulted chambers of seed
Saved from flowers buried
In pockets in a dream. The attic

Is for scores of unheard music,
Notes from expired currencies, toys,
Diplomas, film reels, a shoebox of shells,
Centuries of things to be sorted later

(Albums, letters, keys, locks of hair),
Sealed to keep the past from taking over.
Essential to the structure is an atrium
Where a thought on its own may rise,

And every storey shall include
Corners tempting a child to hide.
What the garden grows, a resident,
However transient, may decide, 

Provided some hydrangeas recollect
Slow-dissolving cumuli
And along a gate unlatched for passersby
Lobelias spill indigo.

Above all, the plan will correspond
With the terrain beyond the boundary,
Features of topography the print alone
Won’t show (a void 

Is a wilderness sustained
By the margin). To that end,
The design makes sure a visitor
Exiting any door must meander,

Following light as it falls across
Nameless shades in a palette of moss
On a path sown with conifer needles until
Stumbling into a clearing

Before a precipice, whose lip
Offers access to
Water on water pouring through
A stone vestibule—
Here, I’m at a loss,

Without a line to plumb the measure of bliss.
But I know this: when I step outside
There’s a space within reach
No quadrant can divine or divide.


"FIGHT AND DANCE"

i went to the harbor and i saw you standing there,
wind falling through your hair and you lowered your eyes; and, the autumn mist cooled your blushing cheek, you smiled so cute - so meek - and lifted your eyes; and we slowly walked away as leaves and tides swirled and you lightly hung my world on your little fingers and you let me hold your hand, you let me kiss you and i never missed you and your little fingers.  

and our civil war rent my world from fear and cast it too the sea, and you washed over me and wrapped my dirty wounds under the stars of your love.

and you walked away from me,
cited differences artistically.
no...

you cracked your broken smile and i beared my broken heart, tied, twisted, torn apart, left stunned and screaming for comfort in kisses and nights filled with laughter and the mornings after when you made me breakfast.

and our uncivil war bleeds a bloody bath of love, and our hearts lay bruised and torn; we fight and dance without taking a step at all.

i went to the harbor and i saw you standing there,
wind falling through your hair and you lowered your eyes.


"BLACK BALLOON"

Baby's black balloon makes her fly
I almost fell into that hole in your life
And you're not thinking 'bout tomorrow
'Cus you were the same as me
But on your knees

A thousand other boys could never reach you
How could I have been the one?
I saw the world spin beneath you
And scatter like ice from the spoon that was your womb

You know the lies they always told you
And the love you never knew
What's the things they never showed you
That swallow the light from the sun inside your room, yeah

And there's no time left for losin'
When you stand they fall, yeah

Comin' down the world turned over
And angels fall without you there
And I go on as you get colder
Comin' down the years turn over
And angels fall without you there
And I'll go on and I'll lead you home and
And I'll become
What you became to me


“SNOWDROPS”

Do you know what I was, how I lived? You know what despair is; then
winter should have meaning for you.

I did not expect to survive, earth suppressing me. I didn't expect to waken again, to feel in damp earth my body able to respond again, remembering after so long how to open again in the cold light of earliest spring—
afraid, yes, but among you again crying yes risk joy
in the raw wind of the new world.


"DISSIMULATION WITH BIRDS"

i. Starling

Black husk, shimmered in oil come midnight.
Dreams of leaving emerge hard as bells
when I wake alone and mouth the word alone
only to glimpse mirror’s sharpened beak at my back.

ii. Cardinal

Come day, everything I hide is a feast
for you, picnicking in late summer’s green.
If I were to wallflower yet again
would you promise never to search for me?

iii. Sparrow

On the Euro rail all the trees were the same
dull bread, and I, ravenous as the scripture.
Tamed on the crowded streets of Prague,
I forgot my name means anything.

iv. Finch

Calling you all, I lost the point of color,
colliding in the monsoon of our bed, pecking
at random interactions misidentified
as something other than this fleeting.

v. Heron

Still, the stillness wrecks me. Balancing
these wings of memories, the labor I leave
till dawn is a sharp slit of the knife’s evening
before I even think to move from the cutting.


"STRECHED LYRIC 2"

I'm in a room full of people, hanging on one person's breath. We would all vote him most likely to be loved to death. I hope he still wants it, but it might remind him of when, he aimed for the bulls eye and hit it nine times out of ten. That one time his hand slipped, and I saw the dart sail away. I don't know where it landed, but I'm guessing between green and gray. We thought nothing of it, but it still haunts him like a ghost. With all eyes upon him, except two that matter the most. He says "Green is the color everyone sees al around me. Gray is the color I see around her, and she's just a blur." The more the corwd cheers, the less I can hear and they don't really care what I play. It might be for her. But for now it's between green and gray. We paid and we cheered. Now we're gone and to us that feels right. But for him every one of those evenings turns into a night. With another hotel room where he lays awake to pretend that he's doing fine with his notebook and discman for friends. He says "Green is the color everyone sees al around me. Gray is the color I see around her, and she's just a blur." Night after night what I hear, what I write fills the room and my head starts to sway. It might be for her, but for now it's between green and gray. I want you to love me, he whispers, unable to speak. And he wonders aloud why feelings so strong make the body so weak. Then he awoke. Now he's scared to death somebody heard. If it was you, and you know her, please don't say a word.


"MEANING"

When I die, I will see the lining of the world.
The other side, beyond bird, mountain, sunset.
The true meaning, ready to be decoded.
What never added up will add Up,
What was incomprehensible will be comprehended.
- And if there is no lining to the world?
If a thrush on a branch is not a sign,
But just a thrush on the branch? If night and day
Make no sense following each other?
And on this earth there is nothing except this earth?
- Even if that is so, there will remain
A word wakened by lips that perish,
A tireless messenger who runs and runs
Through interstellar fields, through the revolving galaxies,
And calls out, protests, screams.


"GOD"

And it was on the way home that I finally hit upon it. The consciousness of little children to the earth; the bias of grown men, struggling with the structures of modern civilization; the consequent and natural bias of the little children. Result? The dead men of today. God is the thing. God is consciousness. God is the perspective of the eye and ear and nose and mind. God is man; and man is God. Man lowers his head and lunges into civilization, forgetting the days of his infancy when he sought truth in a snowflake or a stick. Man forgets the wisdom of the child. The basic scheme of man has been neglected. But, my insane darlings, not with me around! God is the thing, theological, pagan, or real.


"ALL DEAD THINGS SHALL COME TO ME"

They wash out on my shore each night
Trinkets and glass, ivory masks
Heart-shaped lockets, diaries, maps
Smashed toys and silver, shiny stones
Beads, bottles, buttons, buttercups, bones
Of whales, sometimes, and water dragons’ spines

Sometimes     it’s the placenta of a new-born star
Sometimes     I trip on angel wings at dawn
Almost brand new, waiting for someone to
Adjust the straps and put them on

Talent, I have, that’s what they said
To find the life in what is dead

People are begging at my door, you see
To craft them harps of former lovers’ hair
They hand me fragments of the air — soul pottery
To bandage hearts that I repair

I rummage among seashells, teacups, cutlery
Metallic parts and cogs. I am
An artisan of sorts, I guess
Bee-keeper, ferryman
A gardener of graveyard gods
I stitch together wood and foam
Porcelain dreams, cicada husks
Heart-shaped keys and bird-song dusks

All dead things shall come to me
To tinker them to life, to undo mistake
A broken clock, uprooted tree
I make, I make, I make

A golden ribcage, pewter bee
Still wishing what I cannot take         —        I  break

And all dead things shall come to me
Still haven’t found what died in me
Still haven’t found what died in me


"KEEP IT TOGETHER"

When we all finally washed ashore It was clear there was no one else around We declared a national holiday A chance to build it from the ground So far away from everyone And everything starts today Keep it together Can we keep it together We're singing a new song now And everything starts today Can we rise? Can we get along all right? Can we miss the storm that sucked the whole world in? And the boats went out at night And the choppers in the sky They searched but they could find no trace of us So far away from everyone And everything starts today Keep it together Can we keep it together We're singing a new song now And everything starts today The thunder struck, the clouds appeared Our fearless crew was not prepared And pretty soon the boats came for us Half a million strong We gathered arms, we fired shells We build a wall around ourselves And pretty soon the spirit was a lot like What it used to be back home So far away from everyone And everything starts today Keep it together Can we keep it together We're singing a new song now And everything starts today


"MIRRORBALL"

I want you to know
I'm a mirrorball
I'll show you every version of yourself tonight
I'll get you out on the floor
Shimmering beautiful
And when I break it's in a million pieces
Hush
When no one is around, my dear
You'll find me on my tallest tiptoes
Spinning in my highest heels, love
Shining just for you
Hush
I know they said the end is near
But I'm still on my tallest tiptoes
Spinning in my highest heels, love
Shining just for you
I want you to know
I'm a mirrorball
I can change everything about me to fit in
You are not like the regulars
The masquerade revelers
Drunk as they watch my shattered edges glisten
Hush
When no one is around, my dear
You'll find me on my tallest tiptoes
Spinning in my highest heels, love
Shining just for you
Hush
I know they said the end is near
But I'm still on my tallest tiptoes
Spinning in my highest heels, love
Shining just for you
And they called off the circus
Burned the disco down
When they sent home the horses
And the rodeo clowns
I'm still on that tightrope
I'm still trying everything to get you laughing at me
I'm still a believer but I don't know why
I've never been a natural
All I do is try, try, try
I'm still on that trapeze
I'm still trying everything
To keep you looking at me
Because I'm a mirrorball
I'm a mirrorball
I'll show you every version of yourself
Tonight


"BASPHEMOUS REVENANTS"

Who can know the shame of the dead, the ceaseless weeping of the necromancer's thrall? Cruel enough is the ancestor's service given in love to Hearth and Kin. But ghost or guardian, bonewalker or bonelord, summoned by profane ritual and bound by force to the corpse miner's will, how may such a spirit ever find rest? How may it ever find its way back to its blood and clan?


"THE LARK, THE PEAT, THE STAR, OUR TIME"

It was the year of no summer,
when it hid under banks of rain, ducked
behind fog, dashed across the road
in front of us, rolled under a car and out
the other side, its face a flash in a side mirror,
flirting for our notice, as though a test
of our worthiness. We weren’t. Worthy that is.
We gave up on it, threw ourselves on autumn’s
mercies, deciding the metallic hint of frost was best.
And a lark flashed a needle across the west.

We froze in place. It was the sign we needed:
a sunrise bird, sewing the sky, sowing winter
like a seed in our hearts where it might sprout
and flourish, thicken and keep us chilled
through all the long and glorious nights.
We weren’t heroes, we were cheats:
we thought we were big enough to revel in it.
We thought we were brave and brazen.
We weren’t. We huddled in our solstice retreats
And we spread a thousand peats

to warm our hearts. And they did. We admitted it.
So spring took pity on us. Raised its head above
our bleak horizon. Thawed playgrounds into blossoming.
Warmed us into fields worth plowing, planting,
all the works of hope, made us truly brave.
Rained and shone into us. Our courages are
more humble now, but no less than the first leaf
tenderly unfurling, spreading its fingers to reach
the first glinting bar of summer sun, just that far
Between one summer star

and the next, the next, and the next, how we
learned to flourish, to abound, to be unbound,
to stop counting each minute and to hold our hands
out to the sun, letting it dry and freckle our skins.
Allowing ourselves touch the minutes like ball bearings
we could let fall one by one, so we could enter
each day and leave it tasted, noted, changed
by our passage. Enjoy that our explorations were
no longer those of children, time was our mentor
And the black chaos of fire at the earth’s centre.


"THE TIP OF A WILLOW"

A cigarette causes a fire which causes a cliché. The smoke alarm is making the living room cough. Adrienne Barrios hears footsteps in her teeth. She doesn’t remember where she put Leigh Chadwick or what it means to breathe, or how it feels to taste, or why anything matters when she’s never seen a poet howl at the moon. What she does know: even flames have their own flames. And: even a neighborhood charred is still a neighborhood. The firefighters are interviewing the lack of rain. When did brilliance forget how to weather? the firefighters ask. The day we went on strike, the weather says. Adrienne Barrios sits on the sidewalk and watches the flames lick the windows. She checks her pocket and finds Leigh Chadwick sleeping inside a memory. She wonders how many Leigh Chadwicks have fallen asleep inside how many memories. She imagines many, maybe too many, though how many is too many she doesn’t know. She looks at her hands, her fingers. She wonders why there are only ten of them and how many things can you not count with your fingers because there are only ten? Too many, Adrienne Barrios imagines. She thinks about the flames, and the smoke, and the dreams that will never be dreamt. They are uncountable. Adrienne Barrios feels small, too small—a pebble stuck inside her shoe, a mistake with the boy who liked her bangs, every year that will follow—and then the moment ends and what is left but for Leigh Chadwick to climb out of a pocket and walk into a star.


"SKIN CARTOGRAPHY"

You are in love with a cartographer 
who forgets to eat dinner. She is planning
an expedition to Pluto. It is cold
and the whole world is sad. Everything looks happier
in bright charts and textbooks. She will carry flowers
in seeds on her shoes. She dreams of a forest in the bedroom,
the soft light bending through the sheer drapes, 
a warm, fulfilled potential from another timeline. You bring her 
birds and lost memories. A finch flies through her chest
every time you kiss. Together, you form an whispering: 

The stars are ghosts. 
	The tongue is a complex molecule. 
Dance is water soluble.  
	Sex is a lesson in heat transfer. 
I am being made into a diamond.
	I am telling you how to find me in the end. 

On the airplane, she sees a darkness growing,
maybe a cloud shadow, maybe a large murmuration of starlings,
maybe just a projected emotion. There are no tools
for making the kinds of maps you need, 
yet. You are leaving the bodies
of every person you have every shared breath with. No room left
unused. She sees the compass needles spinning
but can’t tell you how to fix it. She has no songs for this journey,
and you have too many. Together you trace a topography in salt:

I have a lump in my throat.
	I am holding the paperwork for the future.
The ground is always rushing toward us.
	The sky is always holding us in place.
A map holds the whole past, the coming, but can’t tell the stories.
	A pin can mark a destination or a place where change is coming.

Pushed out of orbit, pulled up the lightning,
you think about magnets. You are painting with iron,
it is heavy and you are already only charcoal. She tries so hard
to wrap you in skin. You are grateful for skin. The atmosphere
of her heart is warm. You should sleep, 
but the salt won’t let you. In the night, you hear the ground shift,
a sound like rhubarb growing. She tells you it’s the trees. Outside,
the whole world is sad. This place 
is not so different from home. She is with you, marking geographies
on your body when you are too tired to move. You are not lost
and never will be.


"DEWDROP MOLECULES"

Sea glass balcony dancing. The string it keeps is tall. The echo eventful. The echo happens every time. We record this song and we cry. We record this song to play later but it is not the same. Swirling drum circles. Maverick jazz. Witness the discipline. Testimonial connection. The slippers elk leather, untethered. As the sound is repeated, the atlas of the past rebuilds.

Add music. Loop the music. The tuba is tuning. The oboe is broken. Again, the tap is turned on. Hopeful, golden, alone. Secondary caretakers. Additional police. The mimic of the minute. Take a minute. The minute mimics the minute. The minute mimics the mist. A minute simulator. A minute. A mist. Some stories must end with the rest left untold.

The therapist was inside of his chair. A folktale on a liter of milk. When the children turned into piano keys, their parents bought grapes and again used wages. Gasoline and melted snow atop a towel. His crew, he knew, was stuck to the ground. 


"LAST GASP OF SUMMER"

the last gasp of summer in your ribcage
finality makes you look so fragile, darling
but even now you’d have me in a heartbeat
if I could only breathe…

standing on the edge of something bigger
I respire by the rise and fall of bones 
under that skin of yours
and you’re barely moving, baby
you’re barely moving now
and the moment’s catching me

last gasp of summer in your ribcage
and oh, the green made you look so lovely, darling
leaves fall around your feet
but I swear, you’d have me in a heartbeat
if you wanted me

inhale at the thought of something ending
exhale and it’s already gone
and just when I’ve caught my breath
I’m losing something else
and the snow just won’t come soon enough
what’s soon enough?

last gasp of summer in your ribcage
I’ve never been any good at goodbyes, darling
leaves fall around your feet
but I swear you’d have me in just one heartbeat
if you wanted me
if you wanted me
‘cause I forgot to breathe
when I saw you there


"BIG GOD"

You need a big god Big enough to hold your love You need a big god Big enough to fill you up You keep me up at night To my messages, you do not reply You know I still like you the most The best of the best and the worst of the worst Well, you can never know The places that I go I still like you the most You'll always be my favorite ghost You need a big god Big enough to hold your love You need a big God Big enough to fill you up Sometimes I think it's getting better And then it gets much worse Is it just part of the process? Jesus Christ, it hurts Though I know I should know better Well, I can make this work Is it just part of the process? Jesus Christ, Jesus Christ, it hurts (Jesus Christ, Jesus Christ, it hurts) You need a big god Big enough to hold your love You need a big god Big enough to fill you up Shower your affection, let it rain on me And pull down the mountain, drag your cities to the sea Shower your affection, let it rain on me Don't leave me on this white cliff Let it slide down to the, slide down to the sea Slide down to the, slide down to the sea


"MAYBE THE FORESTS OF THE MOON BURNED, LONG AGO"

My screen glows brighter than the window – 
I’m trying to fill out applications
to a future I’m unsure exists. I am dreaming
about water on Europa. I am life 
orbiting Jupiter. Mom is on her phone, 
speaking about fire, in a language from the past.

When her voice stops it changes
from fear to footfalls, 
as she walks to my room. I know
she can’t believe in the future. So I tab
to a video, a screen that looks like I’m happy
in these walls that have become cage and grave.

She tells me I should be reading news
I already know. She shows me pictures
of dead fields, dead forests, grey ash
between red and drying green. I think
how much it looks like the moon I’ve seen 
in textbooks. The dead one, so close to home.

I tell her how sad the pictures make me,
but not why. She whispers how sad she is,
how I give her hope, and I believe her. I hug her, 
say goodnight, but don’t let my head hit the pillow. 
Instead I tab back to the future and think 
about how I can’t carry her life. Can barely carry mine.


"HAVE HAD HAVE HAD 3"

Some do not believe in unicorns, but I have seen the wild creature, grazing, alone, his calm spiral horn pointing heavenward. When I came close, careful not to startle him, wanting only to touch his strange white mane, he sidestepped from me in a meek and cautious way. He must have felt the burden of his equine spirit as his cloven hooves danced across the dampened grass, shying from capture. He must have known to guard his powers from the bitter poisons of the world. His black gaze fixed upon me for that one ethereal moment, and then he vanished into the tapestry of forest, his fierce, retreating bray filling the air with shivers of melancholy. My hands stroke nothingness now. I kneel beside the milky blue waters, longing for his rare return. A monolith has surfaced in Utah. In Romania. In Times Square. In the Chevron station at the corner of Downing and 18th. A monolith has surfaced in your anti-vaxx sister’s apartment but it is neither large nor chrome. The local news station describes its appearance as more like a pink wet tongue, similar to the monoliths found in Dallas or that nightclub in Osaka where they dress the bouncers in cowboy couture. Similar to the monolith found on an oil rig, circling the Arctic: pink and wet, sure, but not freezing. There is a pink monolith in the Arctic and there is the pink monolith at your sister’s place but there are also dissolving monoliths. Edible monoliths. Monoliths that will spontaneously combust. Monoliths engraved with hieroglyphics. Monoliths that have begun to move to the suburbs and raise families and complain about the young girls who cry at their daughter’s sleepover and probably shouldn’t have been invited in the first place. There is a monolith working on its skincare regimen. There is a monolith who has an inexplicable fondness for Rick Perry. There is a monolith that has surfaced on your lower ribcage; it’s dark and irregularly shaped. Your wife thinks you should probably get it looked at by the doctor if it grows any bigger, and, of course, it does. It looks like a deformity within days. On the drive to the hospital, you pass a row of monoliths decorated for the holiday season, strewn with Christmas lights or dressed like polar bears, and singing a chirpy carol on repeat. The road ahead is dusted with snow. The lower half of your torso aches. An orange streetlamp casts its glow through the windshield and it’s the soft kind of light that should make you want to look forward to something. But the sky is dark and the windshield is frosted. There’s no looking forward. Not today, at least. 


"STILL SLEEPING AT THE FOOT OF MY BED"

Streaming too many shows about ghost hunting,
wishing I had the equipment. I’d sit and listen to static
with you. I’d leave the recorder running all day,
all night. Would you hang out in my room
and whisper one word answers to questions
I don’t know how to ask? Would you tell me
your voice is so quiet because there’s peace
and you’re not willing to disturb yourself? I get it – 
but what would it hurt to laugh
when I tell myself a joke? And I could play it back
later, and know I’ve still got what it takes
to make you smile 
in that way that’s not suitable for TV. I’d kill 
to know the knocks I hear sometimes are just you
dancing with some new friends 
you’ll introduce me to with an awkward story
when I cross the water in a few decades.


"A FRAGMENTED MORALITY"

Reading and sauntering and lounging and dosing, which I call thinking, is my supreme Happiness. Where am I, or what? From what causes do I derive my existence, and to what condition shall I return? I am confounded with all these questions, and begin to fancy myself in the most deplorable condition imaginable, environed with the deepest darkness, and utterly deprived of the use of every member and faculty. Most fortunately it happens, that since Reason is incapable of dispelling these clouds, Nature herself suffices to that purpose, and cures me of this philosophical melancholy and delirium, either by relaxing this bent of mind, or by some avocation, and lively impression of my senses, which obliterate all these chimeras. I dine, I play a game of backgammon, I converse, and am merry with my friends. And when, after three or four hours' amusement, I would return to these speculations, they appear so cold, and strained, and ridiculous, that I cannot find in my heart to enter into them any farther.


"BIRD SONG"

Well I didn't tell anyone, but a bird flew by
Saw what I'd done he set up a nest outside,
And he sang about what I'd become
He sang so loud, sang so clear
I was afraid all the neighbours would hear,
So I invited him in, just to reason with him
I promised I wouldn't do it again
But he sang louder and louder inside the house,
And no I couldn't get him out
So I trapped him under a cardboard box
Stood on it to make him stop
I picked up the bird and above the din I said
That's the last song you'll ever sing
Held him down, broke his neck,
Taught him a lesson he wouldn't forget
But in my dreams began to creep
That old familiar tweet tweet tweet
I opened my mouth to scream and shout,
I waved my arms and flapped about
But I couldn't scream and I couldn't shout,
Couldn't scream and I couldn't shout
I opened my mouth to scream and shout
Waved my arms and flapped about
But I couldn't scream I couldn't shout,
The song was coming from my mouth


"DEAD LANGUAGE"

in a dream you came back and made the same mistakes you already made. 3 broken ribs and hospital bound. i played the cd that was in the back of a book i bought on the east side. we listened to it over and over and over. we prepared. what song would accompany those who mourn you. i looked up a word – new to me – beautiful in its meaning terpsichorean – but i have not had the chance to use it. 3 times i was told – use a new word three times – it will harness itself to your tongue and it is yours forever. i joined a group of linguists lead by a righteous academic who told me there were no words for “you belong.” he told me i was not welcome, if i stayed it would get unpleasant. i am used to unpleasant – my tongue twisted and tangled and rolled out of mouth like a rotted tooth. i knew you knew – in a dream or in truth – i was telling the story of our time – your fingers dipped in ink, my face covered in sweat – sitting in a used ford taurus- nineteen ninety-six – each word had a purpose – the feeling of your filthy fingers wrapped around my slippery tongue – pulling and pulling, helping me puke up what it was i meant to say – it’s so good to dream of you shoving me up against a tree – lost – the 2 of us – lost in the woods – my body opens up, my ribs scrape yours and we are sewn together – bones weaving upwards like lattice crawling over brick


"THINKING OF THOMAS WOLFE ON A WINTER'S NIGHT"

Bereaved pines standing like Justice,
The cold stare of stars between;
I walk down the road, holding
my ears,
My palms the shelters
From dry sweeps of brittle cold.
 
“Who has known fury?” Wolfe
had asked,
And the critic’s winter eyes,
Like these stars (between
the pines)
Had stared, amusedly.
 
Come, it is warm in my house;
We shall go there;
Soon the flashing sun will
rise up
To overwhelm the petulant
stars.


"WHAT I WANT IN THE DARK"

Somedays, I pray for a black swan, a catastrophe, something 
to send us to a world filled with the skeletons of industry,
no glows electric left. No, I pray for light that exists 
only in flickering flames, candles, oil lamps. I pray for light, 
fragile like the world it lives in. Of course I want this 
for myself. I want to meet the dead again, I want to keep time 
by the moon, by how often I howl, by the lapping of the waves,
by how much more blood there is in bodies than the dirt. I can imagine, 
some nights, what a dead world would be like. How like a ghost 
it would echo itself quietly into eternity. In that place 
where there are no distractions, I could focus on you. Maybe
I could even understand the language of goosebumps on my skin,
and why I feel your breath better with the lights out.


"PRELUDE"

Waking up is a parachute jump from dreams. Free of the suffocating turbulence the traveler sinks toward the green zone of morning. Things lare up. From the viewpoint of the quivering lark he is aware of the huge root systems of the trees, their swaying underground lamps. But aboveground there’s greenery—a tropical lood of it—with lifted arms, listening to the beat of an invisible pump. And he sinks toward summer, is lowered in its dazzling crater, down through shafts of green damp ages trembling under the sun’s turbine. Then it’s checked, this straight-down journey through the moment, and the wings spread to the osprey’s repose above rushing waters. The Bronze Age trumpet’s outlawed note hovers above the bottomless depths. In day’s irst hours consciousness can grasp the world as the hand grips a sun-warmed stone. The traveler is standing under the tree. After the crash through death’s turbulence, shall a great light unfold above his head?


"I HAVE SOME QUESTIONS"

I know you’re there, so I’m talking to you,
even though I know
you have no breath left to give me. I need
to have some answers in advance, 
I need to ask – what do you do, ghost, 
what do you do when you want 
to be remembered, when you want love
but you can’t go home? Do you get angry? 
Is that why the mirror cracks? Is it a map
across the void? If only you could read it,
if only you could travel, unanchor, if only 
you could do anything other than remember 
a place, so far away, and break. 


"I AM NOT RELIGIOUS, BUT"

the Sunday after you die I lace up my shoes and run. Leave my key in the bushes next to the door. Isn’t that what you would have done? Running is the closest I’ve ever felt to holiness: crazed beating in my chest, hot breath on my tongue. Like this body was made for something. I run short and hard, down Riverside Drive and back and I hurt all over. I hurt all over and it is nothing compared to how others are hurting. This pain I control. This pain tampers with time, makes the minutes stretch out like taffy. These precious minutes. This pain sticks to your teeth. Me, hundreds of miles from anyone who knew you, and you, already two days gone. Snow melting on southern streets beneath my feet. Steady beats on wet pavement. Are these tears from this terrific wind or my heavy heart? It is a clear February day and I want to spread myself thin across the pavement and wear all black, not in mourning but so I can more readily accept the gift of the sun’s heat. I am not religious, but I think I feel you with me through the sharp silence. Something in the way shadows play on the frost-tipped grass. I am not religious, but who among us doesn’t search for signs? Here I am listening to you laugh across space and time. Not miracle, just video. Still—that look in your eyes. As if to say: this earth, this time, is sacred. These rocks are reverence, these people, a prayer.


"FEEL BETTER, JESUS. LOVE, CROSS"

well if you wanna play jesus to me
stab your palms and your feet and i’ll believe
but i’ve never been your cross to bear
i’ve never been your cross i swear
and no one’s asking you to carry me
anywhere

if you wanna lay your hands on me
that has nothing to do with healing, i believe
you’re not raising me from anything
you’re just giving me reasons

we spoke in tongues and limbs and lips
you wore salvation on your fingertips
somehow you got under my skin
now i sleep without it…

and i’m no lamb of innocence
you’re just the son of your ignorance
so remember me as heavy wood
it’ll make things better

you’ll say that i was wounded and weak
and you were kissing the other cheek
oh, the sacrifices you made
yeah, that story is better
does it make you feel better?
i hope you feel better.


"HOUSE ON FIRE"

There was a party last night, last night Cigarettes and empty bottles, empty bottles Better open up this window, this window Need some air to clear my head, clear my head Alone in these strange beds I think that I've travelled enough Poetry and aeroplanes I am tired of waiting for love Tend to fall asleep in the fast lane, in the fast lane Sometimes sinking low in the high life, in the high life No more happy songs of heartbreak, oh' heartbreak Or playing white knight misunderstood, misunderstood Alone in these strange streets I think that I've walked them enough Poetry and Aeroplanes I am tired of waiting for love Another night I lie awake In woken dreams of faith and fate Hope my love don't come too late Hope my love don't come too late Alone in these strange beds I think that I've travelled enough Poetry and Aeroplanes I am tired of waiting for love And you were a house on fire, and I couldn't understand why Burn me all down to the ground, you said, the fire is on the inside Flames dancing like ghosts, behind the windows Pain jumping from the walls You want to keep this private, I can see that But you can't ask that of me, we've only just met I said we need hope now more than ever before, do you believe it? The answer was silence, I'll take it as a no We all wanna be normal anyways We all wanna be somewhere else, somewhere we live But that's not reality, it's just point of view Let's not talk about the weather Whether or not there's really rain, the clouds Unless you just wanna know if I feel the same as you It's more measuring up than just wasting time But time is not on our side, you're burning Rain would only be a temporary fix And there's just no place right now for cute ironies Like that anymore, your house is on fire We all write songs about life, we just sing them different You sing the words, but you don't know the song And you expect us all to sing along, how selfish The lengths that we go to, to put so much distance between us is staggering You're burning alive with stress and life Both hands in flames trying to hold the fire inside Drop and roll, repeat line for emphasis I'll repeat it and repeat it until you believe it You're gonna be okay, say it to me The answer is still silence, I'll take it as a maybe I can't decide if I should knock down your door or on it Say the word, and I'll take an axe to your heart or a pin prick Cut right through the dark, let it spill out the contents On our knees sorting through the remnants Pour out your hate in my hands, I'll let 'em slip through my fingers And this is for all of us, This is for the times that we only listen long enough To know the other person we're talking to has the same opinions we do For when we're burning inside, for when we're trying to hide that fact This is for the scalps that we went after, to be only the best dressed To add another notch on our belts, put another feather to our headdress Well, I wanna be the bigger man for you, but I can't take, all is true I'm trying to kick the habit here, but these track marks are a hundred proof "Burn me all down to the ground," you said Or I'll kick through your ashes, hope they sober up my head


"MONSTER LOVE"

You’re going to be surprised
when you find out how I’m stitched together – 
all coffee and pomegranate juice
inside my mother’s record sleeves, sewn
with the innards of cassettes. I’m a jewel case,
I’m an amalgamation
of other people’s history. I didn’t ask to breathe
the salt air. I didn’t ask for lighthouses and fire,
I just exist here. Can you teach me
what it’s like to be someone else? Anywhere else
is better. I could be better with you, I could be
almost human. I’m choking out words
my grandparents knew by heart, begging
you to save me.


"NICE ROOF, SO MANY SHINGLES"

It would be fun to write some of their biographies from the corner of the bistro. For that reason, I am writing you. I had seen vegetables flower in my own garden—cucumbers, beans, sesame, mustard greens—shy and fleeting among thick leaves. I wanted to run away as far as possible from the sweet scent of this “bourgeois poison.” Although the sound of logical thought is not appropriate here, I thought I would sound the alarm in sandwich class. Wait here for me like a good boy. A steel door opened, disappeared. At long last the smell of ancient paper rose in the air—the Ottoman Tax System. You could sit down with your head hurting. W9 forms are not retroactive, it seems, though generational trauma is an act of translation. Fewer and fewer pigeons made you remember who’s mouth. The whole mechanism evaporates, uncoiled. Vanishes.


"ON THE END OF THE WORLD"

On the day the world ends
A bee circles a clover,
A fisherman mends a glimmering net.
Happy porpoises jump in the sea,
By the rainspout young sparrows are playing
And the snake is gold-skinned as it should always be.
         
On the day the world ends
Women walk through the fields under their umbrellas,
A drunkard grows sleepy at the edge of a lawn,
Vegetable peddlers shout in the street
And a yellow-sailed boat comes nearer the island,
The voice of a violin lasts in the air
And leads into a starry night.

And those who expected lightning and thunder
Are disappointed.
And those who expected signs and archangels’ trumps
Do not believe it is happening now.
As long as the sun and the moon are above,
As long as the bumblebee visits a rose,
As long as rosy infants are born
No one believes it is happening now.

Only a white-haired old man, who would be a prophet
Yet is not a prophet, for he’s much too busy,
Repeats while he binds his tomatoes:
There will be no other end of the world,
There will be no other end of the world.


"BIRD"

I was making my way through the grounds of a stately home which had been turned into a public garden. I seemed to be being followed at a distance by a huge bird, like a heron, but pink, kind of coral-colored. I felt like it was mimicking me. I hurried on to try to get away from it and saw a door into a small hut. I went inside thinking I would hide in there until the bird had gone away. The hut had windows at head height so I was able to look out and observe the bird’s progress. I saw it approach another girl, who was with a man, probably her boyfriend. They were crouching down to look into some kind of display case. The girl was dancing, unaware of the bird, which was now right next to her. It started moving in time with her body, but slowly, as if insulting her. Then it moved off in my direction. I ducked down below the window. There was a small bolt on the inside of the door but it looked weak. I worried that the bird would hear me locking it, so I held the door shut with my hand. When I heard breathing I knew the bird was right outside. The breathing got louder. The bird was taking its time to leave. I don’t know how it got in. Its claws were like the claws of a giant insect, pink and reaching. There was one inside me. Deep. I was screaming. It was a very beautiful bird.


"SLEEP SPACES"

In the night there are of course the seven wonders of the world
and greatness, tragedy and enchantment.
Forests collide with legendary creatures hiding in thickets.
There is you.
In the night there are the walker's footsteps the murderer's the town policeman's light from the street lamp and the ragman's lantern.
There is you.
In the night trains go past and boats
and the fantasy of countries where it's daytime. The last breaths of twilight and the first shivers of dawn.
There is you.
A piano tune, a shout.
A door slams. A clock.
And not only beings and things and physical sounds.
But also me chasing myself or endlessly going beyond me.
There is you the sacrifice, you that I'm waiting for.
Sometimes at the moment of sleep strange figures are born and disappear.
When I shut my eyes phosphorescent blooms appear and fade
and come to life again like fireworks made of flesh.
I pass through strange lands with creatures for company.
No doubt you are there, my beautiful discreet spy.
And the palpable soul of the vast reaches.
And perfumes of the sky and the stars, the song of a rooster from 2000 years ago and piercing screams in a flaming park and kisses.
Sinister handshakes in a sickly light and axles grinding on paralyzing roads.
No doubt there is you who I do not know, who on the contrary I do know.
But who, here in my dreams, demands to be felt without ever appearing.
You who remain out of reach in reality and in dream.
You who belong to me through my will to possess your illusion
but who brings your face near mine only if my eyes are closed in dream as well as in reality.
You who in spite of an easy rhetoric where the waves die on the beach
where crows fly into ruined factories, where the wood rots
crackling under a lead sun.
You who are at the depths of my dreams stirring up a mind
full of metamorphoses
leaving me your glove when I kiss your hand.
In the night there are stars and the shadowy motion of the sea,
of rivers, forests, towns, grass and the lungs
of millions and millions of beings.
In the night there are the seven wonders of the world.
In the night there are no guardian angels, but there is sleep.
In the night there is you.
In the daylight too. 


"THE COLOR I TAKE"

All day the green had soaked me, leaf-dappled pollen-dipped, sweet grass and lawn-clippings, clover and plantain, the wrinkled world fresh in its unfurling pouring everything down and dripping my back. Love in its mist, a yellow vined up my fingertips and fruited at my shoulders and some sky such a pulsing pressing blue the air couldn’t stand between us. Everything was merge and float, light running maniac across the retina. All the things that life has stained me by and with, drab parking lots and laundromats, pale lost tickets, the grey scrubbing daily, all this pushed to the raw edges of the universe so that I might be soaked and seeped in color. And there the shore absorbing sea and the green absorbing blue what does it know about how a mountain insists or how everything must learn to bear its shadow. Midnight-blue bleeds to black, a canyon down which the last of the sun is poured, orange as pure egg yolk.


"TWO POINTS FOR HONESTY"

If that's all you will be, you'll be a waste of time
You've dreamed a thousand dreams, none seem to stick in your mind
Two points for honesty
It must make you sad to know that nobody cares at all
I want to be where I've never been before
I want to be there and then I'd understand
Know I'm right and do it right, could I get to be like that?
I don't know what I don't know with nothin' more to gain
Will I get better or stay the same?
I find I always move too slowly
Can't lift a finger, can't change my mind
I never knew 'til someone told me that...
If that's all you will be, you'll be a waste of time
You've dreamed a thousand dreams, none seem to stick in your mind
Two points for honesty
It must make you sad to know that nobody cares at all
And all the people who've seen it all before
And all the people who really understand
Know they're right, and have done it right, could I get to be like that?
I don't know what I don't know, it's harder everyday
Can't lift a finger, can't hurt a fly
I've found I always move too slowly
One thing's for certain, I'm insecure
I never knew 'til someone told me that...
If that's all you will be, you'll be a waste of time
You've dreamed of thousand dreams, none seem to stick in your mind
Two points for honesty
It must make you sad to know that, nobody cares at all
Nobody cares at all
They never care at all...


"GRAVITY'S RAINBOW"

If they can get you asking the wrong questions, they don't have to worry about answers. It's been a prevalent notion. Fallen sparks. Fragments of vessels broken at the Creation. And someday, somehow, before the end, a gathering back to home. A messenger from the Kingdom, arriving at the last moment. But I tell you there is no such message, no such home -- only the millions of last moments. Nothing more. Our history is an aggregate of last moments. All the animals, the plants, the minerals, even other kinds of men, are being broken and reassembled every day, to preserve an elite few, who are the loudest to theorize on freedom, but the least free of all. Through the machineries of greed, pettiness, and the abuse of power, love occurs. If there is something comforting - religious, if you want - about paranoia, there is still also anti-paranoia, where nothing is connected to anything, a condition not many of us can bear for long. The object of life is to make sure you die a weird death. To make sure that, however it finds you, it finds you under very weird circumstances. But it is a curve each of them feels, unmistakably. It is the parabola. They must have guessed, once or twice—guessed and refused to believe—that everything, always, collectively, had been moving toward that purified shape latent in the sky, that shape of no surprise, no second chance, no return. Yet they do move forever under it, reserved for its own black-and-white bad news certainly as if it were the rainbow, and they its children.


"THE COLLECTION"

I showed you the jar of sea glass,
all bulbous white and translucent
turquoise, I let you jingle it, listen
to the crystalline song of silicate. 

I unwrapped the Blaschka models,
these fragile single-cells, invertebrates.
You barely touched, but called 
them beautiful, meticulous, 
unreproducible. 

I deposited a handful 
of delicate intricacies, 
radiolarians,
under your microscopic gaze. 
You examined, carefully named: 
the globes, frustules of diatoms, 
later exclaimed: 
There is so much to chalk. 

The vast majority of life on Earth 
is aquatic.
The above is a fact. 
I listed a few more,
for edification. 

The protruding canine of a narwhal:
I lifted curtains to denude
the myth of unicorns, 
which is hollow, 
grows through the lip, and forms 
a left-handed helix spiral. 

I fed you ptarmigan, 
thick-billed murre, dovekie, 
blueberries and crowberries,
seaweed and fireweed. 

I showed you everything. 
Now, it is your turn. 


"CREDO"

Remember above all things, Kid, that to write is not
difficult, not painful, that it comes out of you
with ease, that you can whip up a little tale in no
time, that when you are sincere about it, that when
you want to impress a truth, it is not difficult,
not painful, but easy, graceful, full of smooth
power, as if you were a writing machine with a store
of literature that is boundless, enormous, endless,
and rich. For it is true; this is so. Do not forget
it in your gloomier moments. Make your stuff warm,
drive it home American-wise, don’t mind critics, don’t
mind the stuffy academic theses of scholars, they
don’t know what they’re talking about, they’re way
off the track, they’re cold; you’re warm, you’re
redhot, you can write all day, you know what you
know, like Halper; you remember that, Kid, and when
you feel as if you cannot write, as if it is no
use, as if life is no good, read this over and
realize that you can do a lot of good in this
world by turning out truths like these, by spreading
warmth, by trying to preach living for life’s sake,
not the intellectual way, but the warm way, the way
of love, the way which says: Brothers, I greet you
with open arms, I accept your frailties, I offer you
my frailties, let us gather and run the gamut of
rich human existence. Remember, Kid, the ease, the
grace, the glory, the greatness of your art; remember
it, never forget. Remember passion. Do not forget,
do not forsake, do not neglect. It is there, the
order and the purpose; there is chaos, but not in
you, not way down deep in your heart, no chaos,
only ease, grace, beauty, love, greatness . . . . . Kid,
you can whip a little tale, a little truth, you can
mop up the floor with a little tale in no time; it is
a cinch, you are the flow of smooth thrumming power,
you are a writer, and you can turn out some mean
stuff, and you will turn out tons of it, because it
is you, and do not forget it, Kid, do not forget it;
please, please Kid, do not forget yourself; save
that, save that, preserve yourself; turn out those
mean little old tales by the dozens, it is easy,
it is grace, do it American-wise, drive it home,
sell truth, for it needs to be sold. Remember, Kid,
what I say to you tonight; never forget it, read
this over in your gloomier moments and never, never
forget . . . . . never, never, never forget . . . . . please,
please, Kid please . . .


"THE FINELY GROOVED SURFACE OF THE SEA"

I had a phonograph once and just one record. It was a very important record. Nobody liked to listen to it except me. It was a shark.

“Listen to this,” I’d say to my friends. I’d put the record on and turn the crank. Out of the horn would come the wet crack and silence of a shark being harpooned. It was followed by a riotous cheer, the zip of the cross-cut saw, the wet flopping of the headless shark, and the helpless struggle suddenly stopping.

“Turn it off,” they’d say. “Nobody wants to hear that.” Or, “We can’t dance to that.”

They didn’t understand. I didn’t want them to dance. I wanted them to listen. Instead, they left and slammed the door.

The recording continued, seemingly forgotten, for some time—sailors shouting, the sound of wooden kegs being cracked, ale sloshing on the deck, laughter, singing. The shark was not in any of this, not from the beginning.
The sounds ended abruptly, much like the shark, but before the end, there were a few minutes of silence, like everyone had gone to bed. All you could hear was the ocean and the sound of the needle scratching the surface.


"ALL THIS, AND HEAVEN TOO"

And the heart is hard to translate
It has a language of its own
It talks in tongues and quiet sighs
And prayers and proclamations
In the grand days of great men and the smallest of gestures
In short, shallow gasps
But with all my education I can't seem to command it
And the words are all escaping, and coming back all damaged
And I would put them back in poetry if I only knew how
I can't seem to understand it
And I would give all this and heaven too
I would give it all if only for a moment
That I could just understand the meaning of the word you see
'Cause I've been scrawling it forever, but it never makes sense to me at all
And it talks to me on tiptoes
And it sings to me inside
It cries out in the darkest night
And breaks in the morning light
But with all my education I can't seem to command it
And the words are all escaping, and coming back all damaged
And I would put them back in poetry if I only knew how
I can't seem to understand it
And I would give all this and heaven too
I would give it all if only for a moment
That I could just understand the meaning of the word you see
'Cause I've been scrawling it forever, but it never makes sense to me at all
And I would give all this and heaven too
I would give it all if only for a moment
That I could just understand the meaning of the word you see
'Cause I've been scrawling it forever, but it never makes sense to me at all
No words and poor language
It doesn't deserve such treatment
And all of my stumbling phrases never amounted
To anything worth this feeling
All this heaven never could describe such a feeling as I'm healing
Words were never so useful
So I was screaming out a language that I never knew existed before


"YOUR FAVORITE"

For foreplay, I don’t have sex with our marriage counselor. The pineapple we bought on Tuesday is ripe. I come four times before lunch. After, I take a nap and dream in assembly lines. When I wake up, I am dressed in left turns. Outside, the woods are gaining weight. The trees are starting to look like trees, again. I haven’t checked the mail in weeks, so I go out to the mailbox. It’s filled with frequent flier miles and an RSVP from our neighbor inviting us to come watch him mow his lawn. You’re still getting nosebleeds. You tell me not to worry, but I worry. I think it’s spring, but I never took calculus in high school so it’s impossible to tell. In the guest bedroom, I can hear Sisyphus yawn. You tell me it’d be nice to find some air, so I pour us each a glass of grapes and we go out into the backyard. The sky is dim, like the lowest setting on a lamp. It’s clear enough that you can look up and not get lost in thought bubbles. I point to the brightest thing above us. Do you think that’s the moon or a hangnail? I ask. I’m not sure. I never am. Below the moon or the hangnail, the grass grazes my ankles. It makes me think of antlers, but I don’t know why.


"TO MY BONES"

In my sleep it rips through
my meagre skin
throws off the red bandage of the flesh
and goes strolling through the room
my monument a little incomplete

one can be prodigal
with tears and blood
what will endure here the longest
must be thoughtfully provided for

better (than with a priest's dry finger
to the rains which drip from a cloud of sand)
to give one's monument to the academey

they will prop it up in a glass display case
and in Latin they will pray before
the little altar made from an os frontalis

they will reckon the bones and surfaces
they will not forget not overlook

happily I will give my color of eyes
pattern of nails and curve of eyelids
I the perfectly objective
made from white crystals of anatomy

can for thoughts
heart cage
bony pile
and two shins

you my little monument not quite complete


"IN THE HOURS BEFORE THE ERRANT CHUNK OF ASTEROID CRASHED INTO OUR PLANET"

People watched and waited and did all the things you’d expect: went to loved ones, went to church, went to the forest, went to the water’s edge. Headed to the grocery store because they thought there was no way the scientists were right and it would be a great time to beat the crowds. Cried. Queued up the same song again and again so it would be the last thing in their ears. Watered their plants in case something survived. Waited. Waited. Waited. Tried one last time to make some art that would endure. Mowed the grass. Finished that client project. Waited. Waited. Waited. Ignored the notification like they ignored all the notifications and continued doing the dishes. Set up one last family game night at the dining room table. Told their news-averse loved one. Didn’t tell their news-averse loved one. Waited. Waited. Waited. And hoped for one last second chance.


"MORNING IN THE BURNED HOUSE"

In the burned house I am eating breakfast.
You understand: there is no house, there is no breakfast,
yet here I am.

The spoon which was melted scrapes against
the bowl which was melted also.
No one else is around.

Where have they gone to, brother and sister,
mother and father? Off along the shore,
perhaps. Their clothes are still on the hangers,

their dishes piled beside the sink,
which is beside the woodstove
with its grate and sooty kettle,

every detail clear,
tin cup and rippled mirror.
The day is bright and songless,

the lake is blue, the forest watchful.
In the east a bank of cloud
rises up silently like dark bread.

I can see the swirls in the oilcloth,
I can see the flaws in the glass,
those flares where the sun hits them.

I can’t see my own arms and legs
or know if this is a trap or blessing,
finding myself back here, where everything

in this house has long been over,
kettle and mirror, spoon and bowl,
including my own body,

including the body I had then,
including the body I have now
as I sit at this morning table, alone and happy,

bare child’s feet on the scorched floorboards
(I can almost see)
in my burning clothes, the thin green shorts

and grubby yellow T-shirt
holding my cindery, non-existent,
radiant flesh. Incandescent.


"A LETTER ABOUT MATCHES"

The goal of an encyclopaedia is to assemble all the knowledge scattered on the surface of the earth, to demonstrate the general system to the people with whom we live, and to transmit it to the people who will come after us, so that the works of centuries past is not useless to the centuries which follow, that our descendants by becoming more learned, may become more virtuous and happier.  The object on the windowsill has something encyclopaedic about it. It’s a thin cardboard box, the size of a quarto sheet of paper. Printed on its lid is a coloured engraving of a collared flycatcher, and underneath it two words in Cyrillic Russian: SONG BIRDS. Open the lid. Inside are three rows of matchboxes, with six boxes to each row. And each box has a label with a coloured engraving of a different songbird. Eighteen different songsters. And below each engraving in very small print the name of the bird in Russian. You who wrote furiously in Russian, Polish and German would have been able to read them. I can’t: I have to guess from my vague memories of sporadic birdwatching. The satisfaction of identifying a live bird as it flies over, or disappears into a hedgerow, is a strange one, isn’t it? It involves a weird, momentary intimacy, as if at that moment of recognition one addresses the bird – despite the din and confusions of countless other events – one addresses it by its very own particular nickname. Wagtail! Wagtail! Of the eighteen birds on the labels, I perhaps recognise five. The boxes are full of matches with green striking heads. Sixty in each box. The same as seconds in a minute and minutes in an hour. Each one a potential flame. “The modern proletarian class,” you wrote, “doesn’t carry out its struggle according to a plan set out in some book or theory; the modern worker’s struggle is a part of history, a part of social progress, and in the middle of history, in the middle of progress, in the middle of the fight, we learn how we must fight.” On the lid of the cardboard box there is a short explanatory note addressed to matchbox-label collectors (phillumenists, as they are called) in the USSR of the 1970s.


"SOMETHING CHILDISH BUT VERY REAL"

If I had but two little wings
And were a little feathery bird,
To you I'd fly, my dear!
But thoughts like these are idle things,
And I stay here.

But in my sleep to you I fly:
I'm always with you in my sleep!
The world is all one's own.
But then one wakes, and where am I?
All, all alone.

Sleep stays not, though a monarch bids:
So I love to wake ere break of day:
For though my sleep be gone,
Yet while 'tis dark, one shuts one's lids,
And still dreams on. 


"RABBIT, RUN"

If you have the guts to be yourself, other people'll pay your price. Everybody who tells you how to act has whiskey on their breath. You do things and do things and nobody really has a clue. There is this quality, in things, of the right way seeming wrong at first. I once did something right. I played first-rate basketball. I really did. And after you're first-rate at something, no matter what, it kind of takes the kick out of being second-rate. Right and wrong aren't dropped from the sky. We. We make them. Against misery. Invariably, invariably--he grows confident of his ability to negotiate long words--misery follows their disobedience. Not our own, often at first not our own. Your heart lifts forever through that blank sky. The only way to get somewhere, you know, is to figure out where you’re going before you go there. 


"TIGHT SLEEP"

Bedtime is a ritual. I am a sacrifice.

I’ll spend hours at night reconciling
pieces of myself to my body – the dust
to my skin, the blood to my bone, 
the breath to my ancestors. The spirits
do nothing to stop the terror
when I close my eyes, too many
shared memories, too many ghosts
wishing not my death but to live in me,
to live. It’s not an explosion, it’s hands
in the mouth, in the throat, 
searching for corners of me 
unoccupied. They fill me, a flood
like swallowing the bedsheets, 
the air inside me can’t escape; caught
beneath the weight of history
and the linen closet, it changes 
weight, a settling poison, 
the sharp arrow of a clenched heart, 
more in common with ash than angels.

I would give anything to wake up 
not tangled, not wet and wrapped
in expectations. I would give anything
to wake up alone.


"INK-LIGHT"

We move within the snow-chromed world: Like-animal. Like-deer. An alphabet. Along a street white as lamplight into the winter, walking—: like language, a new text. I touch her with the eyes of my skin.

The way I read any beloved—: from the ramus of the left jaw down to the cuneiform of the right foot. She isn’t so much what she is—: and becomes herself only when added to the space where she isn’t. What is touch—: not the touch not the hand but the white heat it floats through.

I count her my desires, mark her—: hoofprints across the frozen page. Four strokes of dusk. Carbon black, Lamp black, Bone black, Hide glue—: I am the alchemist of ink. She answers me, Quicksilver,

and the noise of her boots upon the snow is the weight of a night bird bending the meteor-blue branch fruiting white flames of cotton. Each of her steps, an allograph—: bird, flexed limb, perfect line of vertebrae, the glyph of my pelvis.

When I put my teeth to her wrist, the world goes everywhere white. Not sound but the dizzying nautilus of what is both the palm and the ear. I invented her hand in this texture—: a grapheme.

In me, a feeling—: white blossom with a red-sided icosahedron inside the velveteen car of a gold train vibrating the violet tunnel of my throat on its way to a dimmed station in my chest—: twenty seats of desire, and I am sitting in each one.

I burn on the silver sparks of her breath moving out of her body. The miracle. No. The power and the glory glory glory of her—: she breathes. Out—: Out—: twenty red seats of desire, I break every one. A series of waves against hammer anvil stirrup—: a vibration of light I can hold with my mouth.


"EDIT THE SAD PARTS"

Sometimes all I really want to feel is love
Sometimes I'm angry that I feel so angry
Sometimes my feelings get in the way
Of what I really feel I needed to say
If you stand in a circle
Then you'll all have a back to bite
Backlogged voices on the seven wonders
We're all so funny but he's lost his joke now
A communication from the one lined joke
A stand up comic and a rock musician
Making so much noise you don't know when to listen
Why are you judging people so damn hard
You're taking your point of views a bit too far
I made my shoes shine with my coal
But my polish didn't shine the hole
If you stand in a circle
Then you'll all have a back to bite
Backlogged books on the seven wonders
We're all so funny but he's lost his joke now
Our communications come from one lined joke
From stand up comics and a rock musicians
Making so much noise you don't know when to listen
Think it over
There's the air of the height of the highrollers
Think it over
You ain't got nothing until you know her


"THE LAKE WILL PROVIDE"

The supermarket slides into a sinkhole. Our garden fills with rotten, slimy things. Deer and small game are specters. Dad says the lake will provide. The lake is black and deep. Its surface is smooth, like glass. Even on windy days, when the trees creak and bow, the lake is glass. Always glass. We drop fishing lines into the lake. We bring up minnows and tangled seaweed, hardly enough to sustain the baby, let alone the rest of the family. Dad says not to worry. Dad is still confident the lake will provide. We burn our dead and throw their ashes into the lake. The ashes glide across the glass surface. The ashes turn white and sparkle. I think I see Grandma’s face beneath the glass lake, but it’s hard to tell with the blinding ashen sheen. Dad rows to the center and reiterates: the lake will provide; the lake will provide; the lake will provide. We drop our lines. There is a mighty tug, and my small arms are unable to reel in the catch. It pulls even harder, and I stumble to the edge of the boat. The ash lights fade and sink to the bottom. There is another quick tug on my fishing line, and I let it take me. I plunge through the glass. Deeper and deeper. Dad says the lake will provide.


"UNDER ONE SMALL STAR"

My apologies to chance for calling it necessity.
My apologies to necessity if I’m mistaken, after all.
Please, don’t be angry, happiness, that I take you as my due.
May my dead be patient with the way my memories fade.
My apologies to time for all the world I overlook each second.
My apologies to past loves for thinking that the latest is the first.
Forgive me, open wounds, for pricking my finger.
I apologize for my record of minutes to those who cry from
the depths.
I apologize to those who wait in railway stations for being asleep
today at five a.m.
Pardon me, hounded hope, for laughing from time to time.
Pardon me, deserts, that I don’t rush to you bearing a spoonful
of water.
And you, falcon, unchanging year after year, always in the
same cage,
your gaze always fixed on the same point in space,
forgive me, even if it turns out you were stuffed.
My apologies to the felled tree for the table’s four legs.
My apologies to great questions for small answers.
Truth, please don’t pay me much attention.
Dignity, please be magnanimous.
Bear with me, O mystery of existence, as I pluck the occasional
thread from your train.
Soul, don’t take offense that I’ve only got you now and then.
My apologies to everything that I can’t be everywhere at once.
My apologies to everyone that I can’t be each woman and
each man.
I know I won’t be justfied as long as I live,
since I myself stand in my own way.
Don’t bear me ill will, speech, that I borrow weighty words,
then labor heavily so that they may seem light.


"STRETCHED LYRIC 3"

As a kid, my hands were red When you asked me I denied it I've told lies that never came true And I have stolen, so have you If we can make it through another day With you believing in my innocence And we can make it through another year 'Cause we both need it to forget this fear If it's all the same to you Then it's just a little white lie Then it's all the same to me And it's just a little white lie If I was to blame would you? Would you still believe? I don't want you to forget Just pretend that it never happened And it's just a little white lie And it's just a little white lie If it's all the same to you Then it's just a little white lie Then it's all the same to me And it's just a little white lie If I was to blame would you? Would you still believe? If I was a thief? He whispers secrets through a thick mustache And she listens to him flicks her cigarette's ash And smoke hangs velvet curtains, and hides her lips And she hopes the helmet's worth all her health risks I know it was you I know it was you 'Cause everyone requires a plan I can't give you It's all been a sleight of hand I know it was you I know it was you When you left this town, with your windows down And the wilderness inside Let the exits pass, all the tar and glass 'Til the road and sky align The strangers in this town They raise you up just to cut you down Oh, Angela, it's a long time coming And your Volvo lights lit up green and white With the cities on the signs But you held your course to some distant war In the corners of your mind From the second time around The only love I ever found Oh, Angela, it's a long time coming Home at last Were you safe and warm in your coat of arms With your fingers in a fist Did you hear the notes, all those static codes In the radio abyss? Strangers in this town They raise you up just to cut you down Oh, Angela, it's a long time coming Oh, Angela, spent your whole life running away.


"10:90"

We pour shampoo into Norah’s hot tub,
well, not her hot tub, her parents’ hot tub,
but we’re the ones using it, and we want
bubbles. It takes a lot 
to overcome the chemical treatments,
but eventually there are bubbles spilling out – 
a glass of beer with too much head, 
a popped champagne bottle 
with the right amount of happiness 
behind the cork. We grow white hair. We dress
in translucent wedding gowns and marry
each other. We put on masks. We grow horns.
We laugh. We get tired. Well, 
everyone else gets tired. Me, I listen to giggles
receding like the tide, wet feet
slapping the flagstones a little less 
with each step. The door opens, the door closes.

I am alone in the bubbles. I gather them to me,
I pile them like a penguin making a nest
on a nature documentary. I think,
maybe, I am beneath an iceberg. I am,
proverbially, mostly unknown. I turn the jets off
and watch the bubbles pop themselves, disappearing
into the air. Glaciers are melting, I think, pretty soon 
I will stop being underwater. When I stand,
I am in a wedding dress. The door opens again.

A voice calls my name, tells me to come in. Dance.


"WHITE NOISE"

How strange it is. We have these deep terrible lingering fears about ourselves and the people we love. Yet we walk around, talk to people, eat and drink. We manage to function. The feelings are deep and real. Shouldn't they paralyze us? How is it we can survive them, at least for a little while? We drive a car, we teach a class. How is it no one sees how deeply afraid we were, last night, this morning? Is it something we all hide from each other, by mutual consent? Or do we share the same secret without knowing it? Wear the same disguise? No sense of the irony of human experience, that we are the highest form of life on earth, and yet ineffably sad because we know what no other animal knows, that we must die.
 

"PERHAPS THE WORLD ENDS HERE"

The world begins at a kitchen table. No matter what, we must eat to live.

The gifts of earth are brought and prepared, set on the table. So it has been since creation, and it will go on.

We chase chickens or dogs away from it. Babies teethe at the corners. They scrape their knees under it.

It is here that children are given instructions on what it means to be human. We make men at it, we make women.

At this table we gossip, recall enemies and the ghosts of lovers.

Our dreams drink coffee with us as they put their arms around our children. They laugh with us at our poor falling-down selves and as we put ourselves back together once again at the table.

This table has been a house in the rain, an umbrella in the sun.

Wars have begun and ended at this table. It is a place to hide in the shadow of terror. A place to celebrate the terrible victory.

We have given birth on this table, and have prepared our parents for burial here.

At this table we sing with joy, with sorrow. We pray of suffering and remorse. We give thanks.

Perhaps the world will end at the kitchen table, while we are laughing and crying, eating of the last sweet bite.


"AND THE MOON SEES ME"

People take pictures of the moon in the sky,
the supermoons, the many-colored moons, awful blurs
on cell phones, failures to resolve the height, the immensity – 

the lens will never understand distance. I am so low,
flat-backed on the concrete of the balcony, looking up
through wrought iron, gently twisted. The moon is trying

to escape the swell of beastly tides, growing like shadows
in late afternoon. Fingers, invisible, cup the back of her head. Pull.
She pulls away, she gets further, further, but every effort makes her 

tired, so tired. I love her. The moon is trying to escape,
but all the data says she never will. Everyone follows her phases,
never curious about why she is always trying to hide.

I am reaching my arm through the iron bars, stretching my fingers,
but my arm is not long enough. My arm is not long enough,
so I stand up, go inside. Try to imagine her free.


"HAD PART 1"

In the belly of the gamma camera, I don’t look at my bones on the screen. Not even once. I try to visualize balloons, but instead see faces of women. Severed branches of a tree that in school I didn’t know how to complete. The grandmothers, aunts, mothers, my mother, whose cells would have flooded with tracer and lit up like constellations on this scan. My dad used to say, “You have your Mama’s long legs.” (Fibula, tibia, patella, femur.) I relished the thought of her as part of me. With arms cradled in plastic molds and knees resting on a pillow, I become my inside out self. Illuminated bone branches (ribs, sacrum, pelvis) reaching through time. Here is the French cafe. Here are the once-boys, now with chiseled cheeks, strong hands, broad shoulders (mandible, metacarpal, clavicle). Here are three ceramic mugs brimming with cinnamon-sprinkled foam art. In a future bridged by bones, I hold still.


"NOCTURNE WITH DANCERS"

Because heat lightning
sears femurs
along the cloud mass,
these smoky phantoms
which flock like catbirds
darkening then alighting
from the yard’s boughs,
I bring the dog inside
and let him snuggle close.

He curls until his hind legs
rest just below his maw.
They are as white and silky
as the opera gloves
of Degas’ Song of the Dog.

Rains stutter against
the yellowing paspalum
fleshing the highway’s culverts.
These days are measurable
by threads pets gifted us,
too short and course
to be of use.

Strange to think of them.
Strange too to think
Degas’ bodices and basques
spindly as Queen Anne’s Lace
let you understand
the loss of your mother.

These ordinary wonders
do not leave us―
a wolf beside
my unguarded throat,
ragged acacias
above a ball field.

Run-off inundated
a whole diamond last spring.
And once the waters receded,
what remained were muck
and silt, lines of motion
where eddies whirled.

It must have been beautiful,
this ronds de jambe.
How Degas lost himself
painting women
young enough to be girls.

They look lost amidst lacey petals,
delphinium too tired to care
about the artist.

They know he can’t offer
them immortality
only oil on canvas,
pastel on paper,
the wax corpus of a goddess,
nameless dervish.


"PAST LIVES"

I first came into this world on a headfirst dive out of the last. There’s little about physics that makes sense to me except for this: no actions disappear, but rather change in form. My own father was 18 when he decided he’d had enough of his last world. He tore out of Huntsville at the first chance he got—pried open its maw from inside, propped open the jaw like Atlas. I like to think that’s where I am now, decades upon decades later, dripping wet with its spit. Passing through somewhere outside of Shreveport, I spot a dead hog on the side of the road. Blink and you would’ve missed it, but there it is—thick neck stiff and broken, his head now permanently whipped back towards the way he came from. And for a second, blinking, I think of my dead dog. One of them, anyway. Charlie was the family escape artist, gnawing apart wooden fence posts and bolting towards the neighbors’ cats. Charlie performed his final act when Dad evacuated for Isaac, his usual prop replaced with the fence of the house they were in while ours sat in 18 inches of water. Charlie sprinted past the house with my dad on his tail, who thought he knew the act beat by beat. And he did, they both did, really. The dog just didn’t know what a highway was, couldn’t account for its presence in the show. And you couldn’t blame him—he was no Houdini, only fur and kinetic force, then ribs splayed out in morning traffic. Dad says the cars just kept coming, or that they couldn’t stop. Charlie is buried in Dad’s old backyard, body laid on his side, eyes now decayed that once pointed towards the Earth. I wonder if that place, the place the hog’s head is now bent towards, points in that same direction somehow, compass-like, knowing. I wonder if that’s where I look now, turning behind to see the cars behind me, questioning their motives. I wonder what would happen if I looked that hog in its dead eyes, if it would answer me here. I wonder if I hit that hog, somewhere, once, long ago. Wonder if I did it on purpose. Wonder if I couldn’t stop.


"THE MARTYR"

i am made into a star
my mortality pressed out of me
like the layers of bitter apples
hemmed into the cider press.
it only takes pressure,
a transfiguration in silence,
to make a diamond out of ashes.

it was not always so.
i remember before.
but the light of the star by the time it reaches you
is long dead.
the daily living killed me by degrees
and anyone who asks should know this:
what happened to me above
was far better than anything i experienced on earth.

somewhere beyond radio contact
the air went stale
and as my eyes went dim the change began:
the ice of space wrapped around me
like the Theotokos’ celestial mantel
as the capsule cracked and moaned.
the void swallowed all mourner’s prayers
but i did not try to say them.

when i agreed to go
slip those surly bonds with my steely certainty
i thought surely
i would touch the face of God
and forget what my own had looked like.
so i called myself Valentina
with all my unfortunate hair and severe mouth,
a new name for my tonsure and profession.
i shut myself into the capsule
and held my breath as the seconds slipped away
the last moments of gravity and its contractions
streaking silver into the heavens
and past them
until i was finally alone.

i wanted the silence.
i wanted the emptiness to make
a hermitage of zero gravity,
become a stylite amongst the stars —
an astronomical anchoress

a soyuz my desert cave
and i to be St Anthony
with all of space as my wilderness,
mechanical failure for my martyr’s beasts,
and within myself find the peace promised
that comes with ending —
nothing but flesh to be devoured
but i was ready for this last and greatest mystery.
saints are by death transformed,
birthed to their universal adoration,
and so was i:

glorified in the highest and peace,
a star at last —
forever lighting the way for the next traveller.
this is the way, the truth, and the life
transfigured: nothing left
but an engine flame beneath my ikon
of steel and glory,
now and forever.


"A THOUSAND PLATEAUS"

A concept is a brick. It can be used to build a courthouse of reason. Or it can be thrown through the window. Bring something incomprehensible into the world! The self is only a threshold, a door, a becoming between two multiplicities. To become imperceptible oneself, to have dismantled love in order to become capable of loving. To have dismantled one's self in order finally to be alone and meet the true double at the other end of the line. A clandestine passenger on a motionless voyage. To become like everybody else; but this, precisely, is a becoming only for one who knows how to be nobody, to no longer be anybody. To paint oneself gray on gray. 


"TWO KINDS OF PEOPLE"

Here’s another duality: there are those who learn
Time travel is possible, and instantly realize their losses,
However overbearing the grief
That has ripped at hidden flesh and still gnaws,

Rat king curled in your throat. These deaths, inextricable
From our lives, which have grown on,
However twisted and scarred. The absence of
Your loved ones will be subsumed

In the sudden possibility, the pain
Releases like an orgasm and acceptance is total
In the moment we reject the undoing.
And then there’s the other kind of people,

Those who would stop at nothing to bring their loved ones back.
The silence means you are asking yourself, now.


"THE CALENDAR HUNG ITSELF"

Does he kiss your eyelids in the morning when you start to raise your head? And does he sing to you incessantly from the space between your bed and wall? Does he walk around all day at school with his feet inside your shoes? Looking down every few steps to pretend he walks with you Oh, does he know that place below your neck that is your favorite to be touched? And does he cry through broken sentences like I love you far too much? Does he lay awake listening to your breath? Worried that you smoke too many cigarettes Is he coughing now on a bathroom floor? For every speck of tile there's a thousand more That you won't ever see but most hold inside yourself eternally. Well, I drug your ghost across the country and we plotted out my death In every city, memories would whisper, "Here is where you rest" I was determined in Chicago but I dug my teeth into my knees And I settled for a telephone and sang into your machine You are my sunshine, my only sunshine You are my sunshine, my only sunshine And I kissed a girl with a broken jaw that her father gave to her She had eyes bright enough to burn me, they reminded me of yours And in a story told she was a little girl in a red-rouge sun-bruised field And there were rows of ripe tomatoes where a secret was concealed And it rose like thunder, clapped under our hands And it stretched for centuries to a diary entry's end where I wrote "You make me happy" (whoa) oh, when the skies are gray "You make me happy" (whoa) The skies are gray and gray and gray Well the clock's heart it hangs inside its open chest with its hands Stretched towards the calendar hanging itself But I will not weep for those dying days For all the ones who have left there are a few that stayed And they found me here and pulled me from the grass where I was laid


"ANATOMY AND GRAVITY"

if we’re up here anyway
and you don’t have much to say
why don’t we just take that chance
i can’t let it slip away

and I swear I’m not falling
it’s just anatomy and gravity
and I swear I’m not falling
it’s just anatomy and gravity
getting the best of me again

if we’re up here anyway
and we don’t have much to say
why won’t you just take my hand
i can’t let you slip away

I saw you the other day
didn’t have that much to say
I keep on reaching out
but something’s getting my way

I bruised my hands and skinned my knees
I tumbled down around your feet
I bit my tongue so hard it bled
but nothing ever came of it
‘cause I swore I wasn’t falling
I swear I’m not falling

with everything I never said
I have learned to watch my step
I saw you the other day
we didn’t have much to say

but I swear I’m not falling
and you say you’re not walking away
I swear I’m not falling


"THIS BEGINNING MAY HAVE ALWAYS MEANT THIS END"

coming from a place where we meandered mornings and met quail, scrub jay, mockingbird, i knew coyote, like everyone else, i knew cactus, knew tumbleweed, lichen on the rocks and pill bugs beneath, rattlers sometimes, the soft smell of sage and the ferment of cactus pear. coming from this place, from a place where grass might grow greener on the hillside in winter than in any yard, where, the whole rest of the year, everything i loved, chaparral pea, bottle brush tree, jacaranda, mariposa, pinyon and desert oak, the kumquat in the back garden and wisteria vining the porch, the dry grass whispering long after the last rains, raccoons in and out of the hills, trash hurled by the hottest wind, the dry grass tall now and golden, lawn chairs, eucalyptus, everything, in a place we knew, every thing, we knew, little and large and mine and ours, except horror, all of it, everything could flame up that quickly, could flare and be gone.


"DIACHRONICITY"

in kismet three summers ago you tried to kiss me
but it was the height of inappropriate and I beat 
you to the pulp in an orange juice container

that shock that disbelief that fucking astonished―
afterwards you walked to the market and I
went to the docks to see what the children reeled in

one hundred and six days ago we sat on the floor 
in your childhood bedroom and transferred fragrances
while your mother cooked dinner two floors down

meanwhile


"ROSA NUMBER 1"

You say something similar in one of your angry letters from prison. Self-pity always made you angry and you were replying to a moaning letter from a friend. “To be a human being,” you say, “is the main thing above all else. And that means to be firm and clear and cheerful, yes, cheerful in spite of everything and anything, because howling is the business of the weak. To be a human being means to joyfully toss your entire life in the giant scales of fate if it must be so, and at the same time to rejoice in the brightness of every day and the beauty of every cloud.”


"ALTAR"

Maybe it’s enough to say, in hindsight,
the conditions were right for bleeding there.

Maybe it’s enough to know he swam at night,
climbed jagged rock to offer the required flesh. 

By then, he knew the dream had given all it had,
collapsing, as dreams do, into real seas.

The island took from him, then threw him 
with a wave. And that was June.

Not by chance the blood turned back to water.
No accident that salt burned in the wound.

The idea of July was still too much.


"INFINITE JEST"

That sometimes human beings have to just sit in one place and, like, hurt. That you will become way less concerned with what other people think of you when you realize how seldom they do. That there is such a thing as raw, unalloyed, agendaless kindness. That it is possible to fall asleep during an anxiety attack. That concentrating on anything is very hard work. The thing about people who are truly and malignantly crazy: their real genius is for making the people around them think they themselves are crazy. In military science this is called Psy-Ops, for your info. You can be shaped, or you can be broken. There is not much in between. Try to learn. Be coachable. Try to learn from everybody, especially those who fail. This is hard. ... How promising you are as a Student of the Game is a function of what you can pay attention to without running away.


"DELICIOUS FRAGMENT, LEFT PANEL, BACK SIDE"

In the city, I surround myself with sin
at a distance. I think about the old men
who filled their cellars and attics 
with bodies –  I think about Bosch, 
and I think about gluttony and torment, 
empty eyes, how people lust 
with their clothes on, I think 
how hot a dead body might be. In the oven,
there is a cake. When it is done, a bell will ring,
and posing as an angel, I will eat it.


"QUANTUM PHYSICS IN THE GARDEN"

Touch the ground tentatively with the whole palm as if patting the small of a back, or a small back. Scratch at it so the soft hairs fall away. Let grass give way to digging hands I sit watching, not watching. Turn sore-skinned face down, in self-shade from the sun. Hear hard soil pitter-patter like tiny feet landing lightly back onto the box sealed tightly—so tightly that the cat resting on his sky blue cushion inside, below, once and at once short-lived and forever friend, might once again be alive.


"THE INDEX"

In the beginning there was darkness,
then a bunch of other stuff—and lots of people.
Some things were said and loosely interpreted,

or maybe things were not communicated clearly.
Regardless—there has always been an index.
That thing about the meek—how we

shall inherit the earth; that was a promise
made in a treaty at the dawn of time
agreed upon in primordial darkness                

and documented in the spiritual record.
The nature of the agreement was thus:
The world will seemingly be pushed past capacity.

A new planet will be “discovered” 31 light-years away.   
Space travel will advance rapidly,
making the journey feasible. The ice sheets will melt.

Things will get ugly. The only way to leave
will be to buy a ticket. Tickets will be priced at exactly
the amount that can be accrued

by abandoning basic humanity.
The index will show how you came by your fortune:            
If you murdered, trafficked or exploited the vulnerable,

stole, embezzled, poisoned, cheated, swindled,
or otherwise subdued nature to come by wealth
great enough to afford passage to the new earth;

if your ancestors did these things and you’ve done nothing
to benefit from their crimes yet do nothing to atone
through returning inherited wealth to the greater good

you shall be granted passage. It was agreed.
The meek shall stay, the powerful shall leave.
And it all shall start again.

The meek shall inherit the earth,
and what shall we do with it,
but set about putting aside our meekness?


"THOSE INDIFFERENT CLOCKS"

Here's a scale, weigh it out, and you'll find easily More than sufficient doubt, that these colours you see Were picked in advance by some careful hand With an absolute concept of beauty They are smeared, and these blurs come in random order And they colour the eyes of your former lovers Hers were green like July Except when she cried, they were red Now, I know a disease that these doctors can't treat You contract on the day you accept all you see It's a mirror, and a mirror is all it can be A reflection of something we're missing And language just happened, it was never planned And it's inadequate to describe where I am In the room of my house, where the light's never been Waiting for this day to end And these clocks keep unwinding and completely ignore Everything that we hate or adore Once the page of a calendar is turned, it's no more So, tell me then, what was it for? Oh, tell me, what was it for?


"CHEMISTRY NOTES ON ATTACTIVE FORCES"

'Tangle' is a seductress
way of wording it.
It's more like a crash. Look
at the hunter-song, writing
with her hands, crooning about a tangle
of limbs, bodies, and ankles.
The reality: knock our bones together 
until they crash into each other
with all the fundamental forces.
Bound in all the ways we can.
A room is a thing that holds
things. This is much like a person.
A room is also a locus of activity, again,
much like a person. There's an orbital
around your head, static shock halo hair,
where I might exist if I'm not observed.
Hold me here and I'll dance circles 
around your heart. I pass through you 
without touching at all, and
when I falter I make light.
I'd like to stay here if I can. I'd like that.
Once, breath
loved a spark so much
she drew herself inward
until spark tore through her.
This is how fire was born,
and her children alight in our blood
to make us hot and alive.
Once, wet loved herself so much
she clung to her body and wept.
This is how fog on the window was born,
why rain is so cold and close,
and how the pondskaters dance.
This is the same way they'll sing about us; 
our old magic bound in the bones
of a world written in things
wanting to be close.


"HOSPITAL POEM"

I wake up as myself and then wake up as another me and then another me says hello to the first or second or eighty-fifth or three millionth me. A storm brews in the lunchroom, chipping the coffee pot, knocking over a chair. I am wearing a gown covered in charcoal. The walls are padded in foam. I bump into the foam and bounce back and forth like a game of Pong. An orderly sprinkles me with salt and leads me toward a set of doors. We pass a closet filled with jackets shaped like pretzels and white as clouds. An applause sign hanging from the ceiling begins to flash. Most laugh tracks are a symphony of hyenas or echoes from the dead, the orderly says. I don’t know how I got here. The double doors open. The walls sigh. I don’t know how I got here. I close my eyes. A meteor falls from the sky.


"AFTER THE PARTY"

I am with another girl inside a peach,
ignoring what has come before. Every kiss
brings a little decay, a little new growth.

The fire is coming in the next scene. We’ve seen
this movie before. But we are in a peach, floating
in the lake. Water clings to the finest hairs,
and we are safe.

We watch the fish swallow each other
like a cartoon. Bigger and bigger. They’ll feed
on the bottom. Even the ducks couldn’t save them.

In the stone, they can mistake us
for those already dead. We’ll be passed
right over. 

The pleasure domes might fall
into the sprawling city of flame, the demons
will continue the party. We’ll walk out
of the stone, like a closet, or Christ.


"ARENDT"

Education is the point at which we decide whether we love the world enough to assume responsibility for it, and by the same token save it from that ruin which except for renewal, except for the coming of the new and the young, would be inevitable. And education, too, is where we decide whether we love our children enough not to expel them from our world and leave them to their own devices, nor to strike from their hands their chance of undertaking something new, something unforeseen by us, but to prepare them in advance for the task of renewing a common world. In an ever-changing, incomprehensible world the masses had reached the point where they would, at the same time, believe everything and nothing, think that everything was possible and that nothing was true. ... Mass propaganda discovered that its audience was ready at all times to believe the worst, no matter how absurd, and did not particularly object to being deceived because it held every statement to be a lie anyhow. The totalitarian mass leaders based their propaganda on the correct psychological assumption that, under such conditions, one could make people believe the most fantastic statements one day, and trust that if the next day they were given irrefutable proof of their falsehood, they would take refuge in cynicism; instead of deserting the leaders who had lied to them, they would protest that they had known all along that the statement was a lie and would admire the leaders for their superior tactical cleverness.


"ANCHORITE"

What is the difference 
between a saint
and a hermit? You cannot say belief – 
imagine hands purpled
with age, scarred by fire, nailbeds
full of sand and flood. And alive. How
would anyone live inside the earth
and not know a higher power? 


"FACING DECEMBER"

the stars are just as bright without you and it might sound trite but i still think about you and you already have your summer song from me no need to go around saying that you think you love me now wore a dress around the city on a saturday held your hand across the table in stable sort of way but kept staring at my shoes we have everything to lose what can i say, but i want this so bad it hurts but i can't seem seperate my heart from the blue sleeve of my shirt and i think you've mistaken me for someone that you adore i swear the stars are just as bright without you and it might sound trite but i still think about you now the feeling's right but the timing's wrong and last august i wrote you a love song but you stand facing december with your beautiful frown i said- baby, please don't look so let down the stars aren't quite as bright without you and it might sound trite but i still think about you now


"SELF IMPROVEMENT"

in spring i’ll unfurl new growth |
exercise | learn an instrument | achieve life goals | spread my twenty-foot tentacles |
wait | what? | oh my god | why do i have tentacles |
is this | self-actualization?

i am | rolling with it | i guess in spring |
i am a squid with large moonglow eyes | and a murderous beak |
i guess in spring | i live in the abyss | with my squiddy brethren and sistren |
i guess in spring | my blood has quickened | also, it’s blue, and
copper-based | i am a little freaked out but i did say i wanted | a change

alright squids and girls | it’s spring |
and i will eat so many fish | yes | raw |
i will duel the sperm whales of the deep | i will rise at night like a spark of silver fire |
is it | the solstice already? i hadn’t noticed | i’m sorry,
but i am too busy squidding around | to have resolutions this year.


"I AM DARK, I AM FOREST"

I carried a bowl of menudo into the forest / I carried my bisabuela’s tripas not daring ask whose intestines I carried / con cilantro y radish y cebolla chopped fine / I carried the sewing machine they’d chained her to in the garment district downtown I carried the forest crackling against asphalt where her chanclas burnt & melted so I carried her too / I wore no red / I bore no basket / there was no forest but an avocado tree in the backyard of the house they made her sell to get her Medicare for her diabetes shots / I carried her sugarwater / a hummingbird great-granddaughter I carried her flickering / her black- & white-screened / I carried her face / the scars her warped esposo left her granddaughter / carried those wounds through the womb / not wolf but blue-eyed man / I stirred the menudo / my belly the pot / & scalding into the forest I carried / & that tree I chopped down chopped into a boat & carried my mother & my bisabuela across the chile-red sopa the blood-water broth / named her daughter / what forest have we made for her I cannot see / I carried darkness into the forest & sliced it out.


"DONATING SWANS"

Mary wants a bird. What kind? The whole Old Testament
explains the filth of the white feathers, the long neck,
the tender breast. What could be a better symbol,
what could make a better sacrifice, to our woodcarved idol?

Let’s give her the blood, and each other the honor. Let’s
go hunting. We can sing songs and write poems
and make friends who will tell us our swans are fine birds,
mean and graceful. Mary would love them very much.


"TILTING AT WINDMILLS"

When life itself seems lunatic, who knows where madness lies? Perhaps to be too practical is madness. To surrender dreams — this may be madness. Too much sanity may be madness — and maddest of all: to see life as it is, and not as it should be! It is not the responsibility of knights errant to discover whether the afflicted, the enchained and the oppressed whom they encounter on the road are reduced to these circumstances and suffer this distress for their vices, or for their virtues: the knight's sole responsibility is to succour them as people in need, having eyes only for their sufferings, not for their misdeeds. The most perceptive character in a play is the fool, because the man who wishes to seem simple cannot possibly be a simpleton.


"AS THE WORLD TURNS"

I perch on the toilet behind the shut door,
knees clamped tightly, fingers in my ears,
watching globes rise and explode behind my lids.

I move a hand to the knob, try to pull the door tighter.
Beyond it, my mother, home from seeing patients,
cracks the air with her burning voice:

How can you, how can you drink
while you’re responsible for my child?
I can half-hear Georgie murmur in reply,

helpless in excuse, apology. And then she’s gone.
But I loved them both. Those long days, Georgie’s voice
wafting blues from the kitchen: This bitter earth,

well, what a fruit it bears. . . .  How I sat with her,
pressed close to her warm body in its uniform,
as we watched soaps on our black-and-white TV.

Her apartment far downtown by the East River:
I stayed over there sometimes, thinking wonderingly,
she has another life. Yet trembling behind the door,

what could I say—what words find even here
to give myself back then? I was learning
my primal story: how an ordinary day can shatter,

how a woman can vanish, and there will be nothing
on earth I can do to stop it. I’ll come to know its room 
always inside me—that bright, howling place.


"INTERSTELLAR CATALOG"

On this world the trees bury their boughs and stretch roots toward the sky. They have leaves, yes, shapely membranes and veins that don’t feed on the light, don’t spin sugar from the kiss of faraway flames. Here the leaves unfurl under the soil, hungry for breakdown.  Rot of the forest litter.  The leaves have declined the job of sweetening the sap. They are here to darken and enrich the flow.  The leaves here are without the need to be green, released from ancestral obligations.  They thrive in the dark where no one sees, they color themselves to their own wild and inconsistent desires.  I access a memory of what red and burnished gold once meant, a lingering of chemicals when life must withdraw to the heartwood.  Here, no one asks any one leaf to conform for the sake of the crown, for the sake of the tree.  But neither is there a conspiratorial rustle when the wind comes through.  Upside down, upside down.  I watch the local birds, tails too fashionable to be ballast, landing on thirsty roots.  I learn what a forest can be when roots reach ever upward and the dew gathers at night on their tapering, tangled, upthrust persistence.


"A GREAT DAY OF MISERY"

You’re all down here screaming,
naked, tongues laid bare. This whole world
is the Tower of Babel,
and heaven is unattainable. Who can climb
a rainbow like this? The angels are riding
with God, like Carebears ind a cloud car,
the bodies are buried under every footstep,
and there you are, still 
just wanting to be seen. How is it mad
to be strong, to know, to rebel? I pray
to the saints who are not my mother’s
for some peace. Everyone is screaming
and nobody hears me, because 
no one speaks plainly, 
especially to me. How on earth 
can God hear my prayers
over all this noise, his radio turned up? 


"THE MANY GODS WHO RULE ME"

I pray to the god of irony that I get to die before I murder someone else I clarify with the god of misunderstandings that I don’t mean in the ax murderer type of way, but instead in the got the dosage wrong, distracted by street lights accidentally undercooked the chicken type of way I’ve come to understand that the god of accidents will gladly strip someone of their innocence as quickly and cruelly as any god of intention and it’s difficult to discern why the god of chances keeps giving me pieces of his fleeting body so freely, as if with infinite tenderness In the distance, I spy the god of calculation counting down the hungry seconds until the big god finds me but meanwhile, I do what I can; make middling offerings to middle-of-the-road gods who appear to have a lot more power than anyone gives them credit for


"ANTHROPOCENE PASTORAL"

In the beginning, the ending was beautiful.
Early spring everywhere, the trees furred
pink and white, lawns the sharp green
that meant new. The sky so blue it looked
manufactured. Robins. We’d heard
the cherry blossoms wouldn't blossom
this year, but what was one epic blooming
when even the desert was an explosion
of verbena? When bobcats slinked through
primroses. When coyotes slept deep in orange
poppies. One New Year’s Day we woke
to daffodils, wisteria, onion grass wafting
through the open windows. Near the end,
we were eyeletted. We were cottoned.
We were sundressed and barefoot. At least
it’s starting gentle, we said. An absurd comfort,
we knew, a placebo. But we were built like that.
Built to say at least. Built to reach for the heat
of skin on skin even when we were already hot,
built to love the purpling desert in the twilight,
built to marvel over the pink bursting dogwoods,
to hold tight to every pleasure even as we
rocked together toward the graying, even as
we held each other, warmth to warmth,
and said sorry, I'm sorry, I'm so sorry while petals
sifted softly to the ground all around us.


"A LETTER TO MY FRIEND, STUCK AT THE TOP OF THE FERRIS WHEEL"

You called to reassure me that Raymond Carver was okay, how he said his last years were “gravy” and read me his poem in the New Yorker. It wasn’t the last time we spoke, but it’s what I call up easy, like a crayon circle that means “sun” or “face.” I think of you in my kitchen hunched over the small butcher block cart tearing lettuce with your hands to make salad; the times you stood in a room, any room, a cigarette perched in the vertex of its peace sign, dangling like a cliffhanger; or the day I visited your lower Broadway office, a kind of home you found, different from the one in your story about your brother who wept while the neighborhood children ran wild in your yard. I picture the story’s house rundown, white clapboard stripped to gray or make it so in the way I pearl the wool of your black cardigan between index finger and thumb, rubbing imperfection into the weave: I make pills of you—small and gathered and clung to. Your brother in the story, like mine, was in need of constant care. You and I learned vigilance at the age we practiced tying shoelaces, buttoning sweaters. To take care, we said of the phrase, was an act of stealing—from ourselves. You had a rose-colored cardigan, too, and one that was deep red like velvet stanchions, not pilled, pulled, around you, over a black scoop neck tee worn with black slacks, flats, your black hair a bob with self-shorn bangs, strands of white coming in, your dark eyes’ exotropia poised in opposite directions, always fishing for facts you uncovered for your job at the magazine, every fact a new story. Oh, how you loved a good story. We were both curious. Curiosity, like a battery, recharging negatives and positives. Here’s a fact: It is possible to love someone a little. A kind of half-truth. That is how I love my brother, mother, father. And I think how you loved me. I heard from a mutual friend you died in a hospital after a long illness like being stuck at the top of a Ferris wheel, making whatever sounds you needed, sky-close. I hope your last years were gravy, and wonder if you worried who would take care of your brother once you were gone. Mine hangs on: wheelchair, twenty-seven meds, and aides who do the worry for me. I often think of how you and I would end our banter quoting our favorite Carver line, “In this manner, the issue was decided” after his fictional couple pull their baby apart—and talked about how our own mothers and fathers split us in two: saving one half for themselves, the other for our siblings. Here’s another fact: One day, before you got sick, you stopped calling or returning my calls. I am curious why. Which makes it almost okay.


"A SONG ON THE END OF THE WORLD"

On the day the world ends
A bee circles a clover,
A fisherman mends a glimmering net.
Happy porpoises jump in the sea,
By the rainspout young sparrows are playing
And the snake is gold-skinned as it should always be.

On the day the world ends
Women walk through the fields under their umbrellas,
A drunkard grows sleepy at the edge of a lawn,
Vegetable peddlers shout in the street
And a yellow-sailed boat comes nearer the island,
The voice of a violin lasts in the air
And leads into a starry night.

And those who expected lightning and thunder
Are disappointed.
And those who expected signs and archangels' trumps
Do not believe it is happening now.
As long as the sun and the moon are above,
As long as the bumblebee visits a rose,
As long as rosy infants are born
No one believes it is happening now.

Only a white-haired old man, who would be a prophet
Yet is not a prophet, for he's much too busy,
Repeats while he binds his tomatoes:
No other end of the world will there be,
No other end of the world will there be.


"LEVITY"

I read a book that was written in the 13th century. A man said there was five steps toward making amends.
The first involved acknowledging what you did. The second involved remorse. The third involved making right with your neighbor. Like if you stole his chicken, you'd have to go and bring him another. Only then were you able to go to step four, which was making it right with God. But it wasn't until step five that you could really get redeemed. It had to do with being in the same place, in the same situation. That as it goes, you'd go and do something different. Which is why, for me, I know I'll never be redeemed.


"MY RELATIONSHIP WITH WATER"

Distasteful, tongue numbing—
legs stretched long, my body naked, a cove
where the small of my back should be
in a tub with depleting water levels.
This is filth. I’m cutting my fingernails,
crescent moons floating on the surface
of my bath water momentarily
acting like rose petals,
then sinking.
Let the water go
watch what I’ve done follow the current.
Pieces of me circle the drain
suddenly the tub is empty
my nakedness strange,
but my body immovable.
I have obligations,
ability,
everything (add emphasis)
yet nothing will move me—
not even flowers.

Are there gladiolas in your life?
Are they on your catch-all dining room table
near unopened mail, lost car keys,
the indentation of a misfired round?
There’s a poem in a gladiola’s long death dying one
bloom at a time.
Someone else’s poem,
that which doesn’t serve as an extended metaphor
for my failures
remains another person’s problem.

I’ll again pull flowers to pieces when mold
stops growing from the crossed faces
of screws stuffed into fiberglass at eye level.
Call the water back with my toes on the tap.
No one is coming home, I remember.


"I HAVE ASKED FOR A GREAT SPACE TO SEE MANY THINGS"

I always want blood oranges when they are out of season. I want to make them drip red candy red and watch a vampire child eat the rinds. Like this vampire child, I wake in the middle of day and want what I cannot have. Seasons. When we sleep together, a fawn walks over our roof, her delicate hooves placed between tiles as she eats off our chimney moss. As you do your sex thing, I imagine her white belly, her spots as a colony of grounded ivory moths, and her deer mother below, looking up. Often, they are not in agreement about her being on our roof. Deer mother hisses. Get down here, this instant. The fawn ignores her. The deer mother thinks of her mother, that feeble bodied grass eater, dodger of car and lion. She wonders. And wonders. If she saw her today, would she apologize or act like she didn’t know who she was? This is not to say you are not a good lover, indeed, you give me vast floods to swim through. Blood citrus and spotted bleats  crescendo  between  our legs. When you stroke the back of my thighs, I rest my head into the warm pillow fabric and smell swans. All of them long necked with that perfect S of a body, me below on the bottom of the river. They glide over, their thick webbed feet pushing water across my face. Fish hover. Underside of swan procession. As my tendons relax and legs open, one swan face pushes through the water to scoop up the silver scaled being. There is great silence underwater, but I can hear pushing and swooshing. When the swan beak opens there is a great inhale of river. Before she pulls her head back into the sky the swan looks at me while her elegant throat gulps. Little bubbles escape from my mouth, rise to meet the beak of the bird and the slow blink of black eyes. You hold my face in your hands. After, you bring me a bowl of tangerines. We paint them black and scarlet and bury them in the garden before we go to sleep. Dirt conjures a grove of trees with glossy leaves in the moonlight, arranged in lines and shapes of geometry we do not know. The mother deer, the fawn, and the child vampire come to eat the blossoms. They wander alone and together, sugar tongued and full of luck.


"CONSIDER ME FERAL"

Hold me while I scream
in church. Burn me,
cast every wine-dark stone.
I am no longer afraid to dye
my clothes in men’s blood
& suck on stained fingers.

Your worship is an inverted deer—
ribs splintered, bones splayed
like thighs scraping hips,
antlers weeping blood.
I scrape my soft parts
out & bury them.

Kiss me like flames
to a heretic. I bear witch-blood
& I will embrace
it. I’ve mixed holy water
into my lip balm—our next kiss
is the last. Consider me feral.


"VIRIDIAN"

I ask for a word, and she gives me a murky sea. Greener than blue, paint on our hands is wet, wet, wet, and I don’t know what to do with a throat full of algae. Bioluminescent rip-tide of waves swelling at ebbing feet as she dances the shores near an opalescent midnight.I drowned in my last life; kelp followed me to this one—perhaps a siren is only so if they love water more than life. I don’t know what to do on this craggy raft. We’re lost, I finally say, looking onto still waters. She looks at the moon like it were an emerald before saying, Nice night for it.


"LIGHTBULBS"

Pushing my soles down onto
broken light bulbs.
Fuck eggshells,

they’re not fragile
or satisfying enough for this
dance that I perform for you.

My wink is an all-knowing one
as I shimmy,
breaking myself like whitewater

against your hip,
reassembling as grit-teethed mercury.

Enduring while tying cherry stalks with my tongue.


"ENDTIME"

Why cannot the ear be closed to its own destruction?
—William Blake

Won’t come alive ever yet or again? In the mind of Endtime it looks like this: shell, volute, Tabriz, eddies, and tides. Flowers wilt. When you wake, observe the unmitigated trials and tribulations of these tossed things, random it seems. But in the endtime, less personhood more ransom. Radical sleep in the Endtime, there is no end of sleep. Multiplying the stars was never easy in Endtime, doing it by themselves, obstinate stars. Self-repairing and learning on the job. Write reports, sniff out plagiarism, fly your planes with a computer. Drones inhabit the Endtime lore, how many kills. In Endtime things go static. Then still. Switch off “solace.” Would you kill another literary form? a ransom note perhaps, saying again: The dead always will be saying too many of us! Then carry the corpses around. In the mind of the Endtime no substitutes but if you care to try your hand you may gamble all you have to offer and what would that be. A mole might do for you, a burrowing animal “thing” might do, biding time might do for a time, a night perhaps you have for rhetoric, before you are released at dawn. Recant, reflect, review, reach out. We have met the enemy and it is the psychotic karmic flow of our blowback. Privileged community survives a raging flood. Maybe. You keep churning and there’s an echo in the world. In the Endtime no need of explanation. Need stronger better experienced cop? He’s a baby. In the Endtime there are theories of dysfunction, delicate wheelworks that need retread. In the mind of the Endtime scot-free isn’t possible. No interpretation necessary for your cargo. But tax and a search and a fee and a calibration what it all adds up to. Then drop it. Drop it down, send it off, may it disintegrate in peace.


"A VIOLENT YET FLAMMABLE WORLD"

Oceans shape the sides
Touching down in the spaces
Soaking from a warm goodbye
An early rise offers kindly
Tonight I sleep to dream
Of a place that's calling me
It is always just a dream
Still I cannot forget what I have seen
The crowd's hard to believe
At their faces I'm looking
But your feet I'm following
In soft steps on a path the way you lead
I don't want to lose myself
It's a whisper
It's a funny thing
We fold like icicles on paper shelves
It's a pity to appear this way
You're flying when your foreign eyes
Trace the heights of the city
Steaming
With rocks and clouds we breathe
Violent skies
A shock to my own body
Speech is wild
Alive sacred and sounding
Wild
From across and beyond, oh far beyond
I don't want to lose myself
It's a whisper
It's a funny thing
We fold like icicles on paper shelves
It's a pity to appear this way
Hold, hold, hold on
I swear I saw it somewhere
Waving, wading, one, two, three, above the wakes that follow
Hold, hold, hold on
I swear I saw it somewhere
Waving, wading, one, two, three, above the wakes that follow
I don't want to lose myself
Tonight I sleep to dream of a place that's calling me
It's a whisper
It is always just a dream
It's a funny thing
Still I cannot forget what I have seen
We fold like icicles on paper shelves
With rocks and clouds we breathe, a shock to my own body
It's a pity
Alive sacred and sounding
To appear this way
From across and beyond, oh far beyond


"SEED OF TRUTH"

Like it or not, I’ve learned many things from John Constantine over the years. Not a single phrase he uttered reeked of more truth than his admonition that nothing buried stays that way, though. It doesn’t matter if it’s secrets, or grief, or barrels of uranium—everything we attempt to hide finds its way back into the light eventually, like seeds stuffed into soil or some truth we cover in stratas of excuse. The hidden always sprouts, then works itself back to the surface just when we’ve convinced ourselves safety is something real or that anything, at all, is ever over.


"A GRAVITATIONALLY COLLAPSED OBJECT"

There’s a rip at the centre of me,
an old collapsed star that’s just
black hole and gravity now,
all my galaxies swirling slowly down its drain.

Is that what drew you in?
You’ve got a thing
for the ones who never smile?

The Devourer, I call it. The Black Dog.
It deforms space, time. Everything
twists towards the rip, I can’t aim anymore.
It swallows up word after word,
coins and rings and spoons,
leaving me with what’s left. I make do.
They don’t give names to black holes,
did you know that? Not like stars.

Yeah, I get how entropy works;
I’ve still got a lifetime
before it swallows me down. But
I feel like I’m always orbiting.
I think I want
a new sun.

They say that nothing
can escape the event horizon,
not even the speed of light.
So, then: you must be Nothing,
the way you stepped right up to its edge,
peered in, smiled at me over your shoulder —
and came back.

Hey, you.
How do you light up a room like that?
When you look at me,
can you see the stars in my eyes,
the hungry lacuna of my mouth?

Here. I hold out my hand:
an old, scratched-up key
snatched back from the event horizon.
If you want it, it’s for you.

At the end of all of us is
a place we don’t know,
a place beyond knowing.
What goes in never comes out.
What’s there —
beyond?
What did you see at my horizon
that made you want to come back and
take my hand?

There’s a rip at the centre of me, a black hole
that ate ten years and my name, and
no light can escape it
but yours.


"WE GRAVITATE TOWARD THE INEVITABLE"

a midsummer storm rages / meanwhile we / cower for safety / & wait / it out / pray for calm to return / but it’s a total meltdown / a toddler hissy fit / there’s nothing we can do / to prevent these tiny fists pounding the linoleum / / when the tantrum tide / at long last / recedes / we go & check for destruction / we find it / in the form of a nearly severed branch / half the length of the yard / it hangs there ||| broken & stiff / a fresh corpse / swaying in the aftermath / prepped to pierce the ground / / we treat it like a loose tooth / finger it with our daredevil tongues / testing the boundaries / damn thing wiggles around / spins ~round~&~round~&~round~&~round~ / in its socket until we’re all merry-go-round woo-zy / but still it clutches its splintered roots / despite being told / it’s time to go // we strain our necks / in a mutual gape—awed by its massive magnitude / unsure of what to do / so, we scour the shed / & find a coiled snake in the corner / some old rope / we toss it over the limb / start to sway the thing / back-and-forth / back-and-forth / like a temporary pendulum with bark / begging the momentum to complete / this break—this work / the wind started / then promptly abandoned // we keep at it awhile / sawing through air / & eventually / we hear the wood begin to crack / we try / to guide the giant down / with grace / but we cannot / control its f a l l / mid-descent, it nicks the fence / lops the top of a plank off / & it’s not unlike / a guillotine / we watch the head drop / without expression / into the basket at our feet / & in the blink of an eye / it’s over / / now instead of the branch / we stare at this decapitated board / thinking thank god it wasn’t us / damn well could’ve been / in our reckless impatience to bring the crippled down / to its grave / in the wet grass / where it was destined to fall / someday / anyway / why is it so hard to be patient / why can’t we tolerate / suspended things—that awful state / of the / / in-between / /


"COMPASS NEEDLES"

The arrows on the road
match the arrows on
the inside of my arms.

Both move as I do,
compass needles
always pointing back

home. Quivering,
not for a place but
for a person, the one

who stopped the hourglass,
a grain of sand lodged
in the bottleneck.

It chafes, and the arrows
between my fingers itch,
constant reminders that

I’m gone. But you’re gone,
too. What do the arrows
want me to do? Grab a

shovel and dig up the body
that you left at the same
time you left me

scarred and tattooed with
grief? The scabs fell off
eventually, with more itching

after the needle finally
stopped. Inked all over with
maps that don’t make sense.

Miles and years without you,
and new arrows appear,
but they lead me nowhere.

I am still lost. 


"FOUCAULT THINKS"

I don't feel that it is necessary to know exactly what I am. The main interest in life and work is to become someone else that you were not in the beginning. I'm no prophet. My job is making windows where there were once walls. The imaginary is not formed in opposition to reality as its denial or compensation; it grows among signs, from book to book, in the interstice of repetitions and commentaries; it is born and takes shape in the interval between books. It is the phenomena of the library. Death left its old tragic heaven and became the lyrical core of man: his invisible truth, his visible secret.


"MORE NOISE THAN JUST THE WIND AND RAIN"

She likes being a harp more
than she ever liked being a woman
(both more than the thought of being a bird
with bones that break under the pressure of love)

Still before her body was broken down
to make this boney soundboard, this wired voice
golden down to its tarsal pedals

she’d play herself like an instrument-
fingers dug deep inside-
hands plugging holes in her neck-
to coax forth shining sounds just for her

In this city of corpses
turned into music
where one cello bows a ransom note
onto a second
and the pianos line up their keys
to write poison pen letters
that run their ink hard
down the canal for miles


"SETS OF THINGS"

I’ve been sad and can’t find a seasonal sequence. I go forward then my order reverses and it’s winter again two years ago, with that sticky ice that lost your footing as you gripped that container of Greek yogurt you brought to the doctor’s, even when you couldn’t speak; you only darted your eyes with a fear that continually registered in your pupil size. You clutched your sets of things. I am full of what are sets of things I know well then I go backwards and I don’t have any sets of things. I see your pink-stained washcloth from your wool coat. Your cerebellum tumor is inside with your other tumors but I don’t know it’s there yet neither do you. It appeared and controlled your brain and the things you couldn’t hold. I wonder what things really are, if they are just a set of symbols we sequence and then find purposeful. I wonder if they are like rituals that we learn for our brain. We have those for our body and those for our brain. I look at you — you are alive — and you breathe labored breaths then you died. There, in the hospital bed, when I let time lapse not knowing how to hold you. I let you die for seven days. Your daughter, bigger than I am, could hold you. She could use her muscles to grip you, but I couldn’t hold you, even though you lost forty pounds your last month. I couldn’t find the sequence because I reversed everything into its pain cycle and you didn’t want me to watch you die but I couldn’t understand how everyone could let it happen and I could too, but only if I could let it fall into its hole, its awkward sequence, around death; it’s not awkward it’s just not right. I could make as many intuitive decisions, and many logical sequences occurred around your treatments, but I didn’t know you were stepping out of sequence, and treatments are not producing remedies, and I left myself at the side of the hospital bed. You were in another light, exiting slowly. I thought the sequence of grieving would banish all the anxiety but it came back this year. I became debilitated. I have a debilitating anxiety that I thought was gone. 
I have too many anxious sequences now and they are blurring meaning. They are blurring my truths like time-lapses and I don’t rush to find the joy of the occurrence without looking for the traps, and my logic, and my stumbling out into another bed that places me in this now-future and you don’t see me because you are no longer alive with me and I can’t rectify this sequence. And I worry that when I love him he will die too. I can’t happen into its learning like it’s wisdom. It’s still deeply unconscious to hold this fear after I banished worry because I looked it in the eyes and it was real and I felt I knew what it looked like. It’s the unknowing learning that I was deeply afraid to imagine and yet it’s your empty bed, your empty closet, you’re empty of the spirited you that gave you to me, in that human way we come to rely upon and that shames us so. And every night of this thinking is a long night of this thinking. Do you fall into bed with us, and I have no idea of this? I’d love to think it’s so, and we have room for your sets of things. 


"MY TREES GROW"

Look me in the heart,
stare at what you did.
You put me among the trees
that you cut when the rot grew
over our favourite spot.
Wanderless,
I dance on the scars
of the field you gave
to the circus when
our flowers wouldn’t grow.
Rain season is coming,
my air, cleaned.
The breeze cups my face,
telling me it will be okay,
nature is healing.
If only you had waited.


"THE PURPOSE OF HOUSES IS BURNING THEM DOWN"

Every origin is a severing. 
I ended my idol worship with a lesson 
in houses. Bleached walls and a roof 
to seal secrets beneath a bed of filial piety. 
Ritual and obedience are the traits of animals, 
and I was better than fang and claw. 
Birds dropped wreathes of warning bells: 
be careful, or you’ll hurt yourself. But I carved 
myself loose from the bonds of the pack. 
I  crouch naked, reflecting the sun, 
let its fire bake away the blood, their blood, my blood. 
Every severing leaves a wound. 
I met a world 
full of wind and heat and panting scavengers. 
Not every wound is a tragedy. 
I wrote my holy books on their hides, 
and marched off to preach the gospel.


"SEATBELT HANDS"

Well, she's the kind of lady that calls everybody baby Honey, sugar, sweetie, she's always making friends And she keeps us all locked outside her thick leather skin She always starts with a smile, it's small and butter yellow But easier than a handshake, doesn't like her hands touched She tans a lot, gets burnt a lot, smoking through the cartons But then gets put out so much, she's considered a bargain But she was born on the 4th of July with her hand on her heart Loves America, and being patronized, no one ever told her to guard her heart But she was an angel, for Halloween once, but never again And for Christmas every year she's haunted by demons They always tell her they love her She used to believe in innocence until she lost it And spent a long summer, riding the trains She has cats and collectors plates to keep her sane Watching TV in her favorite chair, both of which are rented She's alone, and she surrounds herself with loners Her life is a loan, lent out to anyone who will own her Waiting for the night to sweep her off her feet, while she mops the bathroom floor Hoping for a winning ticket or a man to treat her right But they're both a gamble, and she's been a loser all her life And if she had a nickel for every time she's been punched and kicked She'd put it together with her camel cash, try to buy some happiness They always tell her they love her, but then they take something from her She would always show us her dreams They were crumpled up like leaves from holding on too tight Scattered in her shoebox coffin on the cardboard walls covered in butterflies She's got love in her heart for her babies, and hope in her mind for tomorrow And blood on her hands that only she sees, holding the last bit of time that's borrowed But you never know where that heart has been And we'll never know just how hard it's been I wanna cut open my chest and let her in, but that won't fix what needs to mend And she stands there unlit cigarette in hand Filling up that empty hole with anything that'll pour Insides hanging out like a flare, warning There's beauty in that pain, can you see it? She's crashing through life with seat belt hands One accident away from a miracle And there's an honesty there, but I can't take it all in She hides the worst of it in the wrinkles And that's the ache you get when there's nowhere else to go And she's got nowhere else to go, she doesn't want to go there So I promise I'll go with her, I promise I'll go with her


"THE FLOOD POURS OUT FROM JARS OF CLAY"

Rain rain on my face
It hasn't stopped
Raining for days
My world is a flood
Slowly I become
One with the mud

Down pour on my soul
Splashing in the ocean
I'm losing control
Dark sky all around
Can't feel my feet
Touching the ground

Calm the storms that drench my eyes
And dry the streams still flowing
Casting down all waves of sin
And guilt that overthrow me

But if I can't swim after 40 days
And my mind is crushed
By the crashing waves
Lift me up so high
That I cannot fall
Lift me up
Lift me up when I'm falling
Lift me up I'm weak and I'm dying
Lift me up I need you to hold me
Lift me up and keep me from drowning again
Lift me up, when I'm falling
Lift me up, I'm weak and I'm dying
Lift me up, I need you to hold me
Lift me up, and keep me from drowning again


"SKY FULL OF SONG"

How deeply are you sleeping
Or are you still awake?
A good friend told me
You've been staying out so late
Be careful, oh, my darling
Oh, be careful what it takes
From what I've seen so far
The good ones always seem to break
And I was screaming at my father
And you were screaming at me
And I can feel your anger
From way across the sea
And I was kissing strangers
I was causing such a scene
Oh, the heart, it hides such unimaginable things
Grab me by my ankles, I've been flying for too long
I couldn't hide from the thunder in a sky full of song
And I want you so badly but you could be anyone
I couldn't hide from the thunder in a sky full of song
Hold me down, I'm so tired now
Aim your arrow at the sky
Take me down, I'm too tired now
Leave me where I lie
And I can tell that I'm in trouble
When that music starts to play
In a city without seasons
It keeps raining in L.A.
I feel like I'm about to fall
The room begins to sway
And I can hear the sirens
But I cannot walk away
Grab me by my ankles
I've been flying for too long
I couldn't hide from the
Thunder in a sky full of song
And I want you so badly
But you could be anyone
I couldn't hide from the thunder
In a sky full of song
Hold me down, I'm so tired now
Aim your arrow at the sky
Take me down, I'm too tired now
Leave me where I lie
I thought I was flying
But maybe I'm dying tonight


"SLEEPING VENUS"

When Giorgione paints her, she is a revolution, one arm
raised in rebellion, the other with fingers against the brush
strokes, her blushed and hidden sex. I study her mounted
in my office between interviews, before Amber tells me
everyone knew what was happening to me. The room is littered
with articles and lists, bullet pointed statistics that track
the I-40 corridor and the numbers of missing bodies, women
found in dumpsters. Venus, she is in a duffel bag tossed behind
a Homeland Grocery, nineteen years old. Two men, they say,
Obey, or end up dead. I am flayed open across headlines before
I open the door, and the rules tell me not to sensationalize or
sexualize victims. They say, reveling in the graphic details
does not help them, triggers trauma, tokenizes the survivors’
experience. Amber writes poetry and long monologues. She talks
about her body and the way it’s been used, about the type of men
who are never who you think they are. She sensationalizes, when
she speaks, she cries. This is what happens if you cross us. I trace
each tear as it tracks, note their salt next to each statistic: There are
twenty seven million slaves in the world, you can sell a woman
over and over again for years, Amber's journal reads my body is a cage
and I am still trapped inside the moment you held the key used to
cut me open. Two months later, police bust a major ring in Tulsa,
my city, powerless as they recover cell phones, cash, condoms,
poker chips as currency. You use the chip to pick the girl and not
one goes to the police. Instead mothers encourage their daughters,
involve family members, insist he's a good man, this is just a
misunderstanding. Amber tells me that she turned her mother in
because her younger sister turned seven and mother took pictures
of her wet in a bath, blushing over something as she dressed for
bed, promised her to a man online. What can I say when the world
breaks her open? Amber calls herself a whore. Jeannetta says
I never got paid. Fifteen, a boyfriend took her, innocent and
excited, to a house at the corner of Main. Promised her protection,
sold her to strangers. When they drove off I was still there,
she says, I was what was left. Beaten bloody and stabbed
thirty-six times, she raises her fist to handcuffs. Anna shares
a name with my youngest niece, same caramel skin, she was branded
with hot iron, burned with acid, pistol whipped, gang raped. Once
he filled the bathtub with gin, made me sit with open sores, held
a gun to my stomach. She is twelve when she runs away from her
mother who is only a shadow cowering in corners from hands that miss
her child. Anna misses her father who is an empty well in her chest,
a gaping hole between her arms. Warehoused with girls younger than
she is, they teach her sex while braiding her hair. I meet her
seven years later, she says in the dark she can still hear the whistles,
a train, dogs growling. I think about jumping, she says, but I don't
want to die. I think of Venus, the pastoral scene behind her, green
trees and the simple emptiness of a field, sheets pale against her ivory
skin, red at her back. What can we say, we who have never bled?


"HOBO SYMBOLS"

I claim all the kingdoms as my own. I sign my name across their dust. A wilderness aims to erase the flag of my feet, so I become a tattoo. Hot ink flows from a broken fountain like a kiss from a lamb, a bite from a dog, a gag against the molten smoke. By fire, under the cold blanket of night, I build golden cairns and castles. Can moths be monarchs? There is a church on the moon that holds a crown and a calculus of tombstones. There are no roads, but countless paths to get there.


"HOME REMEDIES FOR ANGER"

Do not exile yourself. In a wasteland 
filled with vampires and messiahs, resolution
comes with a stake, 
the whole desert an offering. 
The difference 
between a pulpit and a stage 
is an altar. 
Skulls become censers 
before the torn shroud. 
No mud left 
for creation, mere muscle and blood. In a wasteland,
there is no hunting or honey – 
the vultures hang on a rack
threadbare as a cleric’s robe. 
If you make a fist, let it be around the heft of a hammer, 
or cut your fingers off – 
there is so much room for hate in a barren world, 
and so little wood for pyres, for caskets, for fence posts. 
Save your voice for when the visions come. 
The mornings of after.
So much water escapes with each breath, 
no prosthetic can replace, no pilgrimage atone.
In a history that is trying to exorcise you, 
the only way to cry to a foreign god 
is in tongues.



"NINE FACTS FROM THE KUIPER BELT"

1.
The janitor of Pluto once slipped off the sparkling orb of ice-dust and into the empty embrace of its lonely orbit. This is how he met his wife, Charon, in his younger days.

2.
The janitor of Pluto believes monarchy to be the one true form of government. He imagines being ruled by butterflies on a distant crystal ball.

3.
The janitor of Pluto does not know his home is not a planet. He claims he built Nix and Styx and the rest so Charon wouldn’t be lonely. He tried to make them look like butterflies.

4.
The janitor of Pluto went to Mercury once. Sweeping the flatlands of Pluto can’t compare to the dizzying thrill of racing down the terminator line, hands in the air, fingers inches from solar flares, heat softening his lover’s frozen flesh.

5.
The janitor of Pluto carries colored clouds from vacations to the methane ocean of Jupiter and the sky-mines of Neptune. At night they wrap around his head. He cannot dream without them.

6.
The janitor of Pluto has a recurring dream where he rides a comet in the shape of a ’64 Mustang convertible. He could never afford one. His favorite color is ambient white, like the glow of a million distant stars.

7.
The janitor of Pluto wants a prison tattoo, but he is his world’s only yardbird. His favorite work song is “Sixteen Tons”. He has never seen coal, but owns one secret diamond.

8.
The janitor of Pluto has scars covering his body. His ex-wife, Charon, thought they made him look like the moon. She took everything but his body and broom. She also gave him a crater.

9.
The janitor of Pluto tripped over a caterpillar on the dark side of his property. He is nursing it back to health. He will be sad when it grows up into a butterfly with a million colors, not ambient white, to rule a crystal ball. But it is worth it for this journey, he thinks.


"METALS"

What are arms 
when your hands are in the air 
and the knives are buried in another back? 
This is no time to name your fists 
Iron and Steel – the metals you pulled 
from the wrecked soil of your ribs, 
metals you forged 
in the tender ashes of the sun, metals 
to hammer new seeds into the exhausted earth. 
The metals look the same 
but are pronounced differently. 
The weight of days and words built them 
like bombs, critical mass at the end of your limbs – 
the explosion was inevitable. 
You were born to be a salvo. 
The metals are your fingerprints, 
and your arms are the evidence 
they belong to you.


"SWAMP THING ONE"

I’ve been inside the darkness, and recognized a tiny piece of myself there. That place held no malignancy, no hate. It welcomed me with its questions, its desires, its need to know so many things. An emptiness, vast beyond containment, beyond even the idea of container. Funny that it released me back into the light only because it saw its same needs in me, bits of them, that it did not own failure and want by itself. It learned from me that darkness reaches into light until there is no distinction between the two. And I learned from my time with it we must all make the most of this in-between.


"RIPE ORANGES"

Orange flowers 
explode into gold 
under aging 
moonlight, 
their sweet smell 
like love’s fever.
The oranges are plump 
with spring, and we 
slice them open.
Their bursting perfume 
pierces the black air. 
We eat them before 
they fall, because we know 
the universe does not see us, 
because we know 
we are candles
holding small flames 
waiting for the wind.


"WAR"

The shotgun spread us out like so much buckshot, a thin blanket, poison, the lead our feet left behind. Our cages are caught somewhere between oxidation and restoration, the rust of time, the coarse polish of migratory sands. We blew through the flesh of a younger world before we learned heaven is no land for trenches and foxholes. The physics of velocity that we never understood, didn’t choose targets. We were all the enemy. Dictate and duty fit like a second-hand uniform. We wear them, now, like surgeons – uneasy, with hands we wrest steady. Our tongues dream of water and the tang of blood in shared spit, a proximity of wrath and rapture. The desert is full of bodies, now, but in the distance I can see, maybe, a phone booth I can call you from.


"WITHERING"

You step, 
left, right, 
until the only enemies left 
are the barren acres. 
When all you want are grass stains, 
and all you have are memories, 
you plant new seeds. 
When you sew where the soil is stone, 
the grass grows fast, dies fast, 
feels more like a bed of nails than a cradle. 
In an empty meadow, 
the mailbox fills with topsoil. 
When you lift your head 
to look in the mirror it falls, breaks, 
cracks in glass form like crags in the land. 
The earth bleeds dust, and you 
learn there can be no peace 
in a hostile environment. 
Still, you wonder, where are the doves 
and the olive branches? Surely they are waiting 
somewhere green 
and soft 
and full of water.


"THE TROUBLE WITH MYTHS"

The trouble with myths is they don’t tell the whole story. But unlike Orpheus, I will not falter this time. I walk into every darkness for you, pay the ferryman with my heart’s blood, wait at the borders of the land I cannot inhabit. I do not leave without you. It takes months to recover every piece of you, to scour every inch of this earth, every dark cranny. Like Persephone at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, your return is celebrated. Standing by wine-dark flowers the gold of your hair is defiant and it breaks my heart thinking of you. But you’re safe now. You’ll never be a consort again, not like that. Put these flowers to your lips and drink their summer. I promise one day you’ll forget the earth that fissured and broke, the dark chariot dragging you into corners and fists, how you gripped anything that held, always looking for a way back home.


"DISCIPLES, SURRENDER"

The sun washes color away, 
until I am nothing but contrast. 
Living, I come as a nomad 
to a field of sand, stretching, 
like death, in every direction. 
On my march I have farmed 
an agriculture of tumbleweeds into nests. 
I have learned a dry branch 
makes the best lit torch, 
and all this grit was once water. 
There is no need to tread further – 
home is not a place, 
but an idea in darkness. 
So build a temple. 
Build a house. 
Practice the discipline of dwelling. 
And like a bird that has lost its voice, 
the sea will return
to paint a landscape and its tenants less picaresque.


"THINGS PEOPLE HAVE WRITTEN IN LETTERS TO GHOSTS"

Remember the time we woke up too late to watch the sun rise and the sky was already bright [space/page changes/something is not connected] and you said you thought you saw the color drain from your eyes when you looked in that mirror [space] once I meant to tell you that the windows were beginning to crack [page changes] under the weight of the water, that’s a phrase you used to describe how stones must feel after they stop skipping, why would [something is not connected] you say something like that? [space] The doctor told me to hold my breath when I felt the first twinge of pain and if it lasted longer than I could keep the breath in than I should get help. What kind of [page changes] dreams do you have at night? Or is there just an emptying out? Like when you sleep after a fever has broken and in the morning you can’t remember anything except that you feel new? [something is not connected] I kept all of the pebbles you collected and I spread them over the bottom of the bathtub and filled it with ice water and when I climbed in it felt like I was in a lake and I thought that I could hear the wind through trees but it was only the house settling down with no one moving about and [space] often I imagine that you are still here only you no longer live in this city and you no longer have the same phone number and maybe your name has changed and that is why I never hear from you anymore. Does that seem [page changes] like something I should have told you sooner? I meant to, you know. But I thought you knew. I just [something is not connected] keep thinking about how we ran outside anyway and kept going until we reached the top of the hill and you said that if we just ran fast enough than the sun would rise again


"FROM THE STALAGMITE, CARVES THE SAND"

You think me flesh,
but I am stone – behold what the desert has done
to my hands, bring your weathered fingertips
and trace the cracks;
with charcoal and familiar pressure
make a rubbing 
of my etched face, I will not wear it long,
no, I am trying to break free, like a falcon,
aching with each beat of blood
for the hood to be lifted, to be uncaged,
to stare at you, unblinking,
in the glare of a new sun,
knowing you see right through me.


"STANDARD LINES"

Which of the bold faced lies will we use? I hope that you're happy, you really deserve it, This will be the best for us both in the end. But your taste still lingers on my lips Like I just placed them upon yours And I starve, I starve for you. But this new diet's liquid And dulling to the senses. And it's crude but it will do. Which of the standard lines will we use? I've been meaning to call you, I've just been so busy. We'll catch up soon. Let's make it a point to. But your taste still lingers on my lips Like I just placed them upon yours And I starve, I starve for you. But this new diet's liquid And dulling to the senses. And it's crude but it will do.


"THE DESERT QUEEN HOLDS PARLIAMENT"

I came with a backpack
full of books. They taught me
how to build a gun
from the emptiness inside, 
from the emptiness circling like birds, they taught me
what animals are made of – 
soft tissue, cartilage, heart,
parts that fail.
I left with a holster
full of lead, I walk now
with a steady eye,
everything moving in relation to me,
everything moving as an arm of the horizon,
I walk now
less flesh, more stone,
carrying blood-black trophies
in my backpack.
So If your wing is broken, 
shoot it off,
or I’ll do it for you.


"DUNCES"

The human body, when confined, produces certain odors which we tend to forget in this age of deodorants and other perversions. Actually, I find the atmosphere of this room rather comforting. Schiller needed the scent of apples rotting in his desk in order to write. I, too, have my needs. You may remember that Mark Twain preferred to lie supinely in bed while composing those rather dated and boring efforts which contemporary scholars try to prove meaningful. Veneration of Mark Twain is one of the roots of our current intellectual stalemate.


"THE BOY WHO BLOCKED HIS OWN SHOT"

If it makes you less sad, I will die by your hand.
I hope you find out what you want.
I already know what I am.
And if it makes you less sad, we'll start talking again.
And you can tell me how vile I already know that I am.
I'll grow old and start acting my age.
I'll be a brand new day in a life that you hate.
A crown of gold. A heart that's harder than stone.
And it hurts a whole lot, but it's missed when it's gone.

Call me a safe bet. I'm betting I'm not.
I'm glad that you can forgive.
I'm only hoping as time goes, you can forget.

If it makes you less sad, I'll move out of the state.
You can keep to yourself. I'll keep out of your way.
And if it makes you less sad, I'll take your pictures all down.
Every picture you paint, I will paint myself out.
It's cold as a tomb, and it's dark in your room,
when I sneak to your bed to pour salt in your wounds.
So call it quits or get a grip.
Say you wanted a solution. You just wanted to be missed.

Call me a safe bet. I'm betting I'm not.
I'm glad that you can forgive.
I'm only hoping as time goes, you can forget...

You are calm and reposed. Let your beauty unfold.
Pale white, like the skin stretched over your bones.
Spring keeps you ever close.
You are second hand smoke. You are so fragile and thin.
Standing trial for your sins.
Holding onto yourself the best you can.
You are the smell before rain.
You are the blood in my veins.

Call me a safe bet. I'm betting I'm not.
I'm glad that you can forgive.
I'm only hoping as time goes, you can forget.


"WHY I PAUSE DRAWING THE BEDROOM CURTAINS"

There is a lamppost two doors down the street
grown into the branches of a lime tree.
Night fallen, the leaves are a jellyfish,
a bioluminescent dance
swimming softly down the street
towards me in the rain.


"AFTERWAR"

I see a clothesline and wonder – do you remember making love behind the folding screen, while outside birdsong of hunger and reproduction echoed off the window? How they ate the frogs and left the heads beneath the laundry hanging on the line, fig leaves still hanging on the trees instead of glued to my body, glued to yours. When we are reduced to our flesh, what is left to strip away? Hair of the wilderness. Scales and silence. What sounds do we make when there is no breath left, and the gears of the sun have ground our pulse to dust? In the hush-hush of the dawn, we learned to read with closed eyes every freckle and there was so much blood, still, inside us.


"OVUM"

You can forget about the eggs when you’re dead – 
how their shells are the same cast as a skull, 
how you washed the baby’s hair, 
how your skin cracked 
like the wasteland you always knew it was 
from the bleach in the sink – 
but the sun and its scorch remind you of your breath. 
The pain comes when your skin stretches, 
seared shoulders of a china doll 
never meant to carry the burden of fire, 
a lesson in differences – basted or boiled, 
shattered or whole. You keep drawing the invisible air 
with a straw, plastic bags, a loose rubber band 
holding each inhalation together with a leak, 
a little wind escaping back to the atmosphere 
to fan the flames of a new day. 
You’re burning – 
an egg unattended – 
so hungry, and the sky is so bright, 
and you’re supposed to make breakfast. 


"THE SHARP HINT OF NEW TEARS"

On the way home This car hears my confessions I think tonight I'll take the long way In this weather The wind outside is biting It's left me feeling tired and exposed You've been asking me to bleed It seems these kinds of questions Come too easy to you now Your lack of shame comes naturally I should not be surprised I should have seen it sooner Expect me to apologize For things that you've done wrong While you're inciting others You're owning up to nothing And I wish that I was gone 'Cause you're not going anywhere And this damp air It's fighting my defroster My sighs, they ring victorious and fog this tinted glass And it's clouded And so is my head The hint of these new tears are sharp I try to choke them back But it's useless I'm useless against them They are beating me with ease On the way home This car hears my confessions I think tonight I'll take the long way Expect me to apologize For things that you've done wrong While you're inciting others You're owning up to nothing And I wish that I was gone 'Cause you're not going anywhere On the way home This car hears my confessions I think tonight I'll take the long way


"NUCLEAR DECAY"

I have wheeled to the end, 
and I have learned that the flood plain 
is no place to build sandcastles. 
How many caskets in the ground did it take 
to make the grass so green? How many kings and queens 
sat unquestioningly upon their thrones 
as the ramparts dissolved around them? 
I am radiant, because I wear my triumph 
on my lesioned skin. 
If I accomplished nothing else, 
at least I can say I was not comfortable, 
that I razed the fortress of my childhood righteousness, 
that I hoisted the sun in the desert, 
that I saw both the blurry ends of the earth 
and the end of the world.  
I do not move anymore – 
I have counted the collapse of every waveform but my own. 
Without motion, I can see the stars shoot, 
I can see the grass. It is beginning to snow, 
and I am dreaming.


"GRAVITY OF HEARTS"

At the still point of the turning world. Neither flesh nor fleshless; Neither from nor towards; at the still point, there the dance is, But neither arrest nor movement. And do not call it fixity, Where past and future are gathered. Neither movement from nor towards, Neither ascent nor decline. Except for the point, the still point, There would be no dance, and there is only the dance.
- T.S. Eliot, from 'Burnt Norton'

gravity (grav-i-tee) from Latin: gravitas (weight) from gravis (heavy)

n.
1. Natural force by which bodies tend to attract each other

v.
1. On a blue-green cat’s eye marble hurtling around a five billion year old explosion we
meet. Our hearts spin like gyroscopes, defying forces that keep our feet on the ground despite the world trying to throw us into the depths of space as it rotates over sixteen hundred kilometers per hour. At such colossal speeds, our muscles, like taffy, stretch. Our most intimate bones twist. Our personal orbits bend into little girl braids and little boy licorice strings.

Newton’s Law of Universal Gravitation:  There’s a locus that everything is always falling toward, pulled toward, moths of blood and bone and dust toward the core of molten light. When bodies get close enough, they get pulled in, vectoring along invisible  between them. The energy ebbs and flows, in and out, as fingers grasp haptic, hectic, desperate to latch on, hold private symbiosis, marionette and puppeteer.
We form an ellipse, a spiral, a line cascading data, words carrying weight – weight implying mass. Densities that collect and build up in the heart, dancing through private chambers, collapsing realities as links form, sinew to red sinew.

g = 9.80665 m/s2

Standing a meter apart the force between us is approximately 3.27 * 10-7. As we get closer, face to face, the distance between lips measured in centimeters, the force increases to 8.17 * 10-6. This is the burning distance, inescapable, wrapped in the warping fabric of space-time as we cross event horizons.
On the moon we are a hammer and feather, falling at the same rate. The moon pulls the
oceans slowly lapping up the surface of the cat’s eye. Gyroscope puppet strings pull the oceans in the spinning masses of our chests. We standardize the bump and slosh and eddies with an additional ring around the extremities of the gyro.

Tidal Locking: When one side of a body always faces another in synchronous rotation. One body takes just as much time to rotate around the other as it does to spin on its own axis. When the objects are similar in mass and the physical distance between them is small, both may be tidally locked to each other.
Hand in hand, hand on shoulder, hand on the small of the back. We’re all hands as we wrap each other in tug-of-war and secrets, crush each other to singularity, form a partnership, binary black holes in a lover’s dance.

Ballet Physics: Gravity is the only force acting on a dancer in the air. To calculate leaps, a dancer must account for their vertical velocity, their mass, and their horizontal speed. Done properly, alone or with a partner, a dancer can create the illusion of floating as the motion of the
head is smaller than the motion of the dancer’s center of gravity. The motion of each
jump can be defined by a parabolic function.
In the end we form a Lagrange point, a celestial lacuna, stationary in space as time expands and the universe expands, and our five billion year old explosion expands, and nothing is left between us but information. 


"THE VERTEX OF THE PARABOLA IS WHERE THINGS TURN AROUND"
 
There is a world stuck somewhere
between sepia and grayscale,
where the colors do not bleed, they play
climbing monkey bars or prison, ironclad
swimming pools forever out of reach:
 
We are not made for the water,
it is made for us, steam powered
machine made machines making
a torso sliced and slid –
and entire childhood down the stairs.
 
There is a bomb hanging in the air, almost
out of sight, like a piece of chalk
disappearing, both ends. Cut to the center
as it burns its last gas trying
to outrun freight trains on the beach:
 
A memory of home, constructed
when the word meant something – stable,
a warm barn all connected lumber, steel nails,
a skyscraper to leap from. A table is there –
it has no chairs.


"NOTHING"

I am going to write about nothing. Nothing at all. Did you ever think hard and say, what is nothing? Nothing is really nothing at all to try to figure out. Look, a comet comes down from nothing crashes into the earth and the earth is scattered to the winds of nothing in little pieces and suppose I survive and you survive and we begin our journey through nothing. How would you like that? I would like that if I could be conscious of it. It would be a great experience to travel up and down and to the left and the right through nothing at all and just keep traveling around and seeing nothing but distant stars and feeling nothing’neath my feet and just flying about through nothing. If I could live through it I would enjoy it. But soon I would get hungry and I would want to eat something but there is nothing in the line of something in nothing, so that I would starve to death and then I would be traveling through nothing but then I myself would not know about it so that I would not enjoy it. Because enjoying is a sensation of living, as you know, and to enjoy you must live and all that, etc. And so it amounts to nothing, nothing, nothing. And soon I guess things would get at me and I would soon dissolve, and then absolve into nothing and become part of nothing. I know some day I will be nothing. (Think hard I say to myself. Think very hard and consider yourself nothing.) I will be nothing someday because I will be part of the dust of the earth which will scatter to the winds of nothing (not the four winds of the earth, but the sextillion winds of nothing) and I will scatter and fly about through nothing and be nothing. Maybe—a million years from now. And I will be nothing. I try to think hard and imagine myself nothing, but I am too much alive to think myself nothing so that despite the fact that I know its inevitability, I feel as if I’ll always go on, but I know better. And when the dust of the earth will scatter to the winds of nothing, then even the particles of dust themselves will begin to dissect themselves and they themselves will emulate the earth’s big act of dissolving and dissolve themselves. Then the particles of the dust particles will in turn dissolve, and this process will continue a million billion times over and over again until the particles will become so small that they will not be far from nothing. Then when eternity ends, the process of making all the particles of the earth into nothing will have been completed. And so I say eternity will never end, because that is what it means. So I look at it this way: When I look into the sky and see nothing (space is nothing) I should kneel down and weep with joy at the marvelousness of such perfect nothingness. Can you imagine how many billions of aeons nothing had to go through before it reached its stage of nothingness? I imagine it because I just found out that the earth will never quite completely be nothing.


"FACE OF SKULL, EDGE OF BREAST"
 
Ophelia, your fossil tears this skull down to salt,
water to fill vacancies of wine and honey
in your empty pool, poor Yorick’s hole –
I would embalm your lips with echoes
pulled through your floating bones
reverberated in blood, each shiver
a little fire, a map of sutures
holding together skeletons and prophecy.
 
How could you drown? There is only a stream,
more shallow than sycophants –
you must have been barefoot,
soft flesh of your sole skipping a stone, heart
beat. Was it quirk or quiet drum? Were you
all fear when the window became the world?
 
Descent is not curved
like your breast. When you landed
your eyes flew away, the color of sail,
ghosts, a broken wake of your keening
words – I miss your voice that reflected
as much light as your pale nipples
under the gauze of this dead moon,
now the rosemary has gone.
 
Your eyes are lost, Ophelia –
I can't see them anymore.


"THIS GREAT STAGE OF FOOLS, IT SMELLS OF MORTALITY"

We are born into daggers, full of more,
our own, and the first lips open unreadable,
a fathomless circle pulling tight its garrote of simple words,
knowing they hold more future than promise:
        Let me teach you a tongue.
 
There is no knowledge, only information
where we grow in sunlight, where the cold turns
fruit to madness, and ripeness is all –
prophecy of youth reaped in elderly ear hair,
and what comes between is jest.
 
We harvest only mystery in darkness,
holy spies. We forget how cold birth is,
how absurd to trust the tameness of a wolf,
touch of a hand, a rogue oath. We forget
there is a razor in my pie, a key in yours, we forget,
even our first cry, and every after, means the same:
        Who is it that can tell me who I am?
 
Let’s go to prison. Let’s wear out in walls –
walking circles cannot be worse, no, alone
in a place where I can bless you
with the fresh salt of my body,
and you can forgive me with yours. We will live
criminals and victims, nameless numbers,
and we will not have to speak, only laugh.


"BEFORE SUNRISE"

You know, despite all the bullshit that comes along with it – I remember my childhood as this, you know, this magical time. I do. I remember when, uh, my mother first told me about death. My great-grandmother had just died and my whole family had just visited them in Florida. I was about three, three and a half years old. Anyway, I was in the backyard playing, and my sister had just taught me how to take the garden hose, and do it in such a way that, uh, you could spray it into the sun. And you could make a rainbow. And so I was doing that, and through the mist I could see my granmother. And she was just standing there, smiling at me. And, uh, then I held it there, for a long time, and I looked at her. And then finally, I let go of the nozzle, you know, and then I dropped the hose, and she disappeared. And so I went back inside and I tell my parents, you know. And they, uh, sit me down and give me this big rap on how when people die you never see them again, and how I’d imagined it. But I knew what I’d seen. And I was just glad that I saw that. I mean, I’ve never seen anything like that since. But, I don’t know, it just kind of let me know how ambiguous everything was, you know, even death.


"THE ANGEL"

Without your wound where would your power be? It is your very remorse 
that makes your low voice tremble into the hearts of men.
The very angels themselves cannot persuade the wretched
and blundering children on earth as can one human being broken 
on the wheels of living. In Love’s service 
only the wounded soldiers can serve. Draw back.
When I heard the learn’d astronomer,
When the proofs, the figures, were ranged in columns before me,
When I was shown the charts and diagrams, to add, divide, and measure them,
When I sitting heard the astronomer where he lectured with much applause in the lecture-room,
How soon unaccountable I became tired and sick,
Till rising and gliding out I wander’d off by myself,
In the mystical moist night-air, and from time to time,
Look’d up in perfect silence at the stars.


"HANDS DOWN"

Breathe in for luck, breathe in so deep This air is blessed, you share with me This night is wild, so calm and dull These hearts, they race, from self-control Your legs are smooth as they graze mine We're doing fine, we're doing nothing at all My hopes are so high that your kiss might kill me So won't you kill me, so I die happy? My heart is yours to fill or burst to break or bury Or wear as jewelry, whichever you prefer The words are hushed, let's not get busted Just lay entwined here, undiscovered Safe in here from all the stupid questions "Hey, did you get some?" Man, that is so dumb Stay quiet, stay near, stay close, they can't hear So we can get some My hopes are so high that your kiss might kill me So won't you kill me, so I die happy? My heart is yours to fill or burst, to break or bury Or wear as jewelry, whichever you prefer Hands down, this is the best day I can Ever remember, I'll always remember the sound Of the stereo, the dim of the soft lights The scent of your hair that you twirled in your fingers And the time on the clock when we realized it's so late And this walk that we shared together The streets were wet, and the gate was locked So I jumped it and I let you in And you stood at your door with your hands on my waist And you kissed me like you meant it And I knew that you meant it, that you meant it, that you meant it And I knew that you meant it, that you meant it


"STELLAR REMNANT"

I want to write about astrophysics 
so I make myself a telescope and observe 
myself. 
I learn about stars 
how the cores collapse 
under the weight of their own gravity 
imploding
caving in upon themselves 
in a miraculous combustion event. 

My body feels like 
luminous plasma sucked inside 
itself — ephemeral, glowing. 
There is a feeling right before it happens
an ominous rumble
a light fluttering of paper-winged moths 
caged within the thoracic cavity
a beating sound leaving 
a string of echoes as the sonority
is carried outward dissolving 
into impregnable nonexistence. 
The rupture sounds like ceilings 
seen from different angles 
and cracks in the window casements 
only noticed for a moment 
just before my eyes close 
and everything turns to bright light 
and debris 
then disappears.


"BETTER IF YOU DON'T"

Drinking to the things I can't take back Thinking of the friends and faith I lack And no one broke my heart quite like that man It's better if you don't care but if you do I won't follow you again TV's on but facing at the wall Can they tell I don't like me at all? I'm never as alone as I am back home Pulling every thread Seemed like a thing to do Now I can't give it back My favorite kind of blue It's better if I don't dwell but if I do I won't call on you again Tinseltown was always in the rain I've been gone and notice every change And some of them are not our friends And some of them are still our friends but dead It's better if I don't think too much of you I've been on my own So I should see it through I mumble when I speak But I mean it when I do I carry what I keep I don't miss a lot of you I drink and I think too much I should quit one of the two But I won't wish for luck And I won't bother you It's better if you don't care but if you do I won't follow you again


"IT LOOKS SO MUCH LIKE A PILL, I WILL NEED MORE WATER"

This is a strange egg,
she is hatching from it soon –
a walking blush, a bear trap.
 
Shot arrows lodge, crossings,
a proud and empty frame to hold
wit and the spark of her eyes,
the light that dreams woe and wakes laughing.
 
She comes to burn the errors –
no angel, she cannot love as she beats away
the turncoat courtesy of shame.
 
Her mouth, a jet, a broken seal,
the truth,
all albumen and iron,
she has not made herself to be held,
but swallowed.


"ATMOSPHERE"

I used to know this woman Who had the most beautiful tattoos On the top sides of both of her hands She was forty-three years old and as far as I know Had never yet been with a man It's not that she wasn't attractive She was beautiful but it was the way that she interacted She was aggressively passive to the point Where she would've intimidated any mitt That ever tried to catch it On the right hand she had a tattoo of a nude girl She claimed it is what God resembled But on the left she had a mirrored image of the same female And this one she explained looked like the devil I remember once watching her touch her own breasts How the tattoos smiled as they stared down her stomach As if anticipating when they'd be allowed to caress The sweet flower that they both seemed to hunger (Sweet flower) Now maybe I was high but it felt so right Heaven and Hell both take to this woman's womb It didn't make sense how she could commence Touching herself with me wide awake in the same room But if I've learned anything in my years (My years) I learned I no longer believe in surprise (In surprise) But what happened next damn near stoled my tears The tattoos came alive right in front of my eyes They both slowly stood up and climbed off her hands And showed me why she never took some time with a man They climbed deep inside of this woman's garden She closed her eyes and she gently bit her bottom lip I stepped I left and I don't regret leaving And I'll never forget all the things I saw that evening A glimpse of religion a piece of coming closer To understanding more about what intrigues me most I didn't get turned on I just got turned I wasn't as aroused as I was concerned For each one of 'em I've hurt and every time I've been burned I've got a lot to teach but even more to learn So now I keep my eyes open hoping to take in all I can About women taking in all she can And for as long as I breathe I'll save receipt In my memory for that woman with the tattooed hands There's good and evil in each individual fire Identifies needs and feeds our desire As long as we keep our spirit inspired She can bite her bottom lip all she wants There's good and evil in each individual fire Identifies needs and feeds our desire As long as we keep our spirit inspired She can bite her bottom lip all she wants There's good and evil in each individual fire Identifies needs and feeds our desire As long as we keep our spirit inspired She can bite her bottom lip all she wants


"I FIND MY EBBING ZENITH"

We will dissolve
like any storm we forge, the furious gales
we build. Unwrought, I acknowledge
all the rifted corners are mine.
 
You don’t spirit the pieces of this shipwreck –
how they suspend themselves, together fit
midair, condense to anvil grey puzzles of thunder –
you don’t know which axis
I spin it on. I loom your fabric, a hurricane,
and I spin on.
 
There are no kings here, only dreams and current,
a lulling recursion of wind and shimmer,
the gossamer wave of air
before buried lightning erupts,
a flux, an inheritance of sand, fused,
blown glass,
mirrored steps to the sky.
 
The temple rumbles, the empty spire holds
nothing, sees nothing,
not the beach, not the crypt, all the devils
here, the scrim
drawn over hell, runes beneath the book of bones
weighing down this ragged altar –
the staff is a nail
in the wood of a heart.
 
A little life circulates like so much heaven,
melted into air,
into thin air:
stratosphere cracked, ozone crackling in the schism,
this wild squall is the final curse,
a blessed endgame will bury us
certain fathoms in the earth, rounded by sleep.


"MY GOD"

Mirage after mirage
Crawling back to your arms
Stay, stay
From your mouth to my heart

Wipe the dust from my eyes
Wash my feet with your tears
My God, my God
From your mouth to my heart

We finally let go
We let go of what holds our hearts in the cold

Don't talk to me about forgiveness
My God, just look who's back in business
That weight that dragged you down
It has been made light
And I'm at the top of my lungs
'Cause big love cannot be understated
Don't push, control is overrated
I know that if we stick together
My God, it's like the weight has been lifted


"SLOE GIN"

The clear weather of juniper darkened into winter. She fed gin to sloes and sealed the glass container.
When I unscrewed it I smelled the disturbed tart stillness of a bush rising through the pantry.
When I poured it it had a cutting edge and flamed like Betelgeuse.
I drink to you in smoke-mirled, blue-black sloes, bitter and dependable.


"SANS MACHINA"

Maybe it’s a revolver, a bullet
in each chamber, six circling round,
until each chamber, by turn, is empty.
 
A blind eye sees we are shot
down the barrel of the corridor,
and all the world's a hallway –
all fine moldings and sconces,
just garnish for doorways, no muzzle,
exits and entrances that don’t open, don’t close.
 
This is a trap with teeth
ground shut. This is rust, the metallic blood
taste tongued from the smooth cells of a cheek.
 
The walls of the scene turn on
stripped gears,
pipes and whistles in its sound –
this is the last scene of all,
strange, skinless and without nerve,
a mere oblivion.


"PAPER DOLL"

In a drawer, in an envelope, on the little paint-spackled desk—flat-chested, flat-backed, little tabs holding the clothes that cling to paper skin. Yes, I’m flimsy, I know. I feel the way my arms and legs flap when you pick me up from the middle, your thumb and index finger pinching my pencil-dot belly button, where the umbilical cord would’ve attached if I had been born of flesh and blood and bone. You attach my floral paper dress, my brown paper shoes, you lift my arm and make it wave hello, hinging from the brass pin at my elbow. You switch me to pajamas at bedtime, holding me gentle and breathless as a prayer, as gentle as your mother held you, when you were small, when you could still be held. I know—you can feel in me the potential to crinkle, to bend, to tear. I am fragile. I am not even cardstock. I want to hold your hand and comfort you and wipe your tears, but paper turns to pulp, dissolves with water. I want you to know, I can see how much you care. But don’t be timid, don’t be so afraid. Pretty things weren’t just made to look at, and what am I supposed to be if not yours to destroy?


"WAR"

someone said love’s like a war
and my heart broke out the guns and sharpened the swords
practiced its battle cry in the mirror on the door
oh heart, do you really know what you’re fighting anymore?
heart, do you really know why you’re trying anymore?

someone said love’s like a war
and my mind turned pacifist, like rhetoric’s the cure
carried a home-made sign saying
I refuse to fight, I refuse to cry
and really, what exactly are you dying for?
do they ever tell you what you’re dying for?

my heart polished its armor
as my mind took to the streets
there’s danger now on every turn
while the army marches and the flags all burn
and you are still just out of reach

someone said love’s like a war
and my heart loaded the guns and unsheathed the swords
applied its war paint in the mirror on the door
oh heart, do you really know what you’re doing anymore?
who do you really think you’re fooling anymore?

someone said love’s like a war, and we touch our scars
now how much peace can we endure if we’ve come this far?
I know it’s dangerous to say that I feel the same
but isn’t that the reason that I came?

someone said love’s like a war
and my mind turned pacifist, and sank into the floor
grabbed a pen, wrote out a sign-
I refuse to fight, I refuse to cry
and my heart looked skeptical and asked- now are you sure?
took the safety off and asked me softly- are you sure?


"FIRE BURNS IN THE LAST SYLLABLE OF RECORDED TIME"

Here we are inside the face,
constructed of warlike shield and vaulted ambition –
there are daggers in our smiles, daggers
in the snakes of our fingers,
and they smell like ribless lilies.
 
Here there are whispers –
the sound of something wicked told by an idiot
and we cannot see the blood, the jump, the life to come,
we cannot see it will have more blood,
a wash of shadow and fury.
 
We lay on words of our own, maybe spells,
troubles and ghosts, how they rule our damned hands.
 
Here the air smells of anvil heat,
a great forging, but we do not know
if we are gold-crowned or crone-woven –
a burnt skull fixed upon the battlements,
signifying nothing.


"CORNFLOWER BLUE"

I wanna lay on the kitchen floor with you I wanna do all the things that lovers do Bruised on your face like a watercolour bloom Moonlight paints your skin Cornflower blue You love me 'til you wear me out Then you love me more I'm blue to the middle, just like you Freezing to the core The days, they fly like trains go by I'm on my way home to you And I think about if they ran me down Baby, what would you do? I wanna lay on the train tracks with you I wanna tie you down the way that lovers do In the morning, I'll love the mangled bits of you I'll love you when your lips turn cornflower blue I love you 'til I wear you out Then I love you more Now all the things that we don't talk about Are waiting at the door I won't let you out of my sight Even when you're sleeping So baby, take your medicine And promise me you're eating Who will I say goodnight to when you're gone?


"A TORCH IS NOT A TENDER THING"

Behold the plague of one moon, two houses,
a sundial awaiting daylight, a silent aubade,
a holy shrine of crossings:
 
half the lips of a single saint,
knees locked together,
torsos glued with sweat,
the candlelit curve of an ass,
a knife in the small of a back –
 
there is no bridge between these things,
just the hope for one,
a dream laced together from heretics.


"BRUISED ORANGES"

We are made to carry,
starting with toys, expectations growing
with larger hands, longer arms,
longer legs. Are we closer to God
when we carry something? 

Dust settles as our movement slows,
settles on us, knickknacks and dolls,
filled with potential. The tap runs
constantly. We expect hands
to steady us in a tornado. Hands
give us a storm to bear – 
we cannot take the sky
and cram it into a teapot.

Someday, we all grow 
into universes, paralleled 
in makeup mirrors. We contain 
infinite reflections, the weight of lead, 
and tales we tell in passing. Notions 
of wonder, silver-plated passions 
for computer science and photography.

Even painted, 
we cannot maintain 
the appearance of angels when we juggle
like clowns. We trip over our shoes – 
we are so full, our small hands
can not carry each other so well, anymore.


"VIRGA"

She’s in the kitchen again, 
floating, nimbus,
and I’m watching the news loop
every half hour. I critique 
the wardrobe of every anchor,
but it doesn’t matter what they wear,
the news doesn’t change
between 4 PM and 10 PM. It doesn’t change,
just like the weather doesn’t change,
but they speak
anyway. They share a robbery,
a murder, a forest fire, and the weather comes on – 
a chance of rain 
that will never touch the ground. In the kitchen
a sizzle as she deglazes a copper pan,
water and oil, yes, and alcohol, 
in an atmosphere that only gets thicker. Out the window
I see a skirt of water, the hem too high, 
and I only smell dinner, not wet earth. in the living room 
the sheer drapes move
in the wind. Wine dresses and undresses 
the sides of her glass. There is thunder 
when the food is served
but she says nothing. Tomorrow will be the same.


"CIRCLE THE DRAIN"

I wanna be calm like the soft Summer rain on your back Like the fall of your shoulders But everything just brings me back down To the cold hard ground And it keeps getting colder It's a feeling that boils in my brain I would dial back the flame But I'm not sure I'm able I'm wobbling out on the wire And the lights could go out With the break of a cable Things feel that low sometimes Even when everything is fine Hey, I've been falling apart these days Split open, watching my heart go round and around Round and around Circle the drain I'm going down I'm trying to seem strong for my love For my family and friends But I'm so tired of faking 'Cause I'm chained to my bed when they're gone Watching TV alone 'Til my body starts aching And I think there's a mold in my brain Spreading down all the way Through my heart and my body 'Cause I cling to the dark of my room And the days thin me out Or just burn me straight through Things feel that low sometimes Even when everything is fine Hey I've been falling apart these days Split open watching my heart go round and around Round and around Circle the drain I'm going down Things feel that low sometimes Even when everything is fine Hey, I've been falling apart these days Split open, watching my heart go round and around Round and around Circle the drain I'm going down Round and around Round and around Circle the drain I'm going down


"HOLDING ITS HEART IN ONE FIST"

Each pebble in this world keeps
its own counsel.

Certain words–these, for instance–
may be keeping a pronoun hidden.
Perhaps the lover’s you
or the solipsist’s I.
Perhaps the philosopher’s willowy it.

The concealment plainly delights.

Even a desk will gather
its clutch of secret, half-crumpled papers,
eased slowly, over years,
behind the backs of drawers.

Olives adrift in the altering brine-bath
etch onto their innermost pits
a few furrowed salts that will never be found by the tongue.

Yet even with so much withheld,
so much unspoken,
potatoes are cooked with butter and parsley,
and buttons affixed to their sweater.
Invited guests arrive, then dutifully leave.

And this poem, afterward, washes its breasts
with soap and trembling hands, disguising nothing.


"BETWEEN THE ELEMENTS, SO FULL OF SHAPES"

There is nothing.
 
A hole in a heart and the things that fill it –
the arms are gone, that emptiness left behind
has always been, like a dried rose
once bloomed, a wet tongue
full of wilted words;
no, there was a kiss once, fragile as an egg,
and lips that went along, breathing,
beating hearts on a silver platter,
an alter couched in the infinite math of limbs
trying to speak the same language
in rhythms polar, glaciers grinding down
the landscape of flesh, wasting
so slow that boulders grow
like roses. The flowers
have always been, will always untangle
if watered with time, sweet as it was before,
and after, they will fill the empty spaces.


"PARTY OF ONE"

"Waiter, send this to the table, the party of one" The only other lonely soul in this place And so you're finishing up your coffee, but then where you're gonna run? Where'd you get that look on your face? You should always let the sun go down on your anger Let it burn you to sleep Bring it closer to danger, to surrender and retreat Sing your sad soul to sleep I loved you the first time I saw you And you know I love you still But I am tired And I am yours Don't even think about your freedom or taking that flight Or going back upon your promise after fighting for the right Because your eggshells and your right statements And your weaponized words, are paper tigers now Oh, your constant overthinking and your secretive drinking Are making it more and more alone And girl, I could slam the door behind you, it ain't never gonna close Because when you're home, you're already home I am tired I am tired I don't wanna go home anymore I don't wanna throw stones anymore I don't wanna take part in the war I loved you the first time I saw you And you know I love you still I loved you the first time I saw you And you know I love you still I don't wanna be right anymore Lord, I don't wanna fight anymore I'm not taking your side anymore I am tired I am not my own And I am leaving Oh, I am tired But I'm coming home 'Cause I am yours, I am yours, I am yours


"A BRIGHT PARTICULAR STAR"

I am supplied with the habit, kneeling
on this virgin sheet, heart nothing but heavy
gold leaf, it reflects a point of light,
strong and ancient, bleeding like a comet
as it nears a tyrannous sun – there is heaven
in my mouth, bait for saints and birds of prey.
 
I pray:
come test my metal, taste
what may within me hide –
an angel, hiding more, a sword
I will bear until it buries me, to the end of reckoning,
where death unloads its dark ingots and wraps me again
in a sheet, just like this.


"GEARS AND TRAINS"

She makes love to a not-quite-cripple in the cab of a ballast tractor or in the backseat of an abandoned Kaiser jeep. He tells her he can hear stray dogs on the moon whining to come home. Or how he remains sleepless dreaming about the arm bursting into fragments over a tiny village no longer on any map of Asia.

When her eyes drift off, when she is too tired and empty handed to be impolite, he tells her how a bevel gear can be used for the sun and an anular one as the planet.

Differentials are not hard to understand he says. She presses a finger to his lips and says “enough.” She loves men who are good with hands and grease. and phantom whippletrees. And he is so obsessed with the passing of time, his heart could be a sundial. He could go on about the old Southern Pacific 4294, but he senses her body mechanics shifting into neutral.


"SOME DAYS I TASTE HONEY"

I used to burst into full aliveness. I used to be able                to burst                     into full aliveness.

Heaven already knows about this:     my excitability,           my tendency                 to look for God

in everything.                  Now, and only some days                   I may taste a bitty wisp        of honey

in my morning tea.       As in—aliveness          as in—joy       as in—nectar and                 elixir and

horse-like                         prancing through the forest              here comes my little fork,             full

of thorns again.              Daily we frolic               on and off     and some days, it’s    cold cardboard

or wet, sour wrongness—      think       salt-sharp, think    orange juice               after toothpaste.

Now I must eat                with my eyes                  and try not to wither away.               No one knows

about this:                         how I got sick and got sick and           got sick     and because I was alone

in a new city        unsure of what would come flapping out of my cupped hands:    my sick-self

my secret gallop             or my divine rearranging,             and after years of swimming the edge

of sustenance,     of nourishment—         I feel hungry     always            and never             and now

I don’t know what to do with all the honey I have left.                           I have so much honey left.


"PANSIES & CUCUMBERS"

One of the nurses laughs,
the other knows sea water.

Where is the doctor
my mother cries, and when can we see 
what is going to happen?

She is behind me 
at this first moment of breathing,
bleeding and preserving the walls of our house – 
she will tell me later how the windows shook,
how I was born with strength
to raise more than gardens.

We are gifted
with incomprehensible prophecy. I fall in love
with the legend of Cassandra, with my mother
crying in the sun, planting pansies and cucumbers.

A garden rises,
lives – it does not return. 

Where is the doctor
my mother cries, and when can we see
what is going to happen?

I only return to stand behind her
at her last moment of breathing. When I scream 
the windows do not shake, and I know
her power is not mine.

What is going to happen? I know
laughter and sea water
and nothing but questions.


"THE RECIPE CARD IS LOST, BUT I AM COOKING"

Some days, I watch the world outside the picture windows
slowly reduce, like the tomato sauce my mother taught me – 
an almost imperceptible evaporation. Like the windows,
I mirror the loss. The shovel of my shoulder blade digs 
into the soft parts of my spirit as much as the sofa. I feel
hot bubbles rise through me, burst out. I leave pieces of myself
where I don’t belong. I know this house is mine, 
but it is not home, because I unmade the comfort with silence
and the quiet recitation of veins we can call natural productivity – 
I know the particulate of dust is falling in the open cupboards
as the flowing graphite curtains close across the sky. Soon,
the rain will be louder than the gas burner on the stove,
and I will have to get up to check the sauce. Taste it, adjust,
keep an eye on it before it disappears completely


"SUGAR, WE'RE GOING DOWN"

Am I more than you bargained for yet?
I've been dying to tell you
Anything you wanna hear
'Cause that's just who I am this week
Lie in the grass next to the mausoleum
I'm just a notch in your bedpost, but you're just a line in a song

Is this more than you bargained for yet?
Oh, don't mind me, I'm watching
You two from the closet
Wishing to be the friction in your jeans
Isn't it messed up how I'm just dying to be him?
I'm just a notch in your bedpost, but you're just a line in a song

Drop a heart
And break a name
We're always sleeping in, and sleeping
For the wrong team

We're going down, down in an earlier round
And sugar, we're going down swinging
I'll be your number one with a bullet
A loaded god complex, cock it and pull it


"ALL ALONG THE WATCHTOWER"

There must be some kind of way outta here Said the joker to the thief There's too much confusion I can't get no relief Business men, they drink my wine Plowmen dig my earth None will level on the line Nobody offered his word Hey, hey No reason to get excited The thief, he kindly spoke There are many here among us Who feel that life is but a joke But, uh, but you and I, we've been through that And this is not our fate So let us stop talkin' falsely now The hour's getting late, hey Hey All along the watchtower Princes kept the view While all the women came and went Barefoot servants, too Well, uh, outside in the cold distance A wildcat did growl Two riders were approaching And the wind began to howl, hey All along the watchtower All along the watchtower


"TO THE DOGS, FOLLOWING THE UNKINDEST CUT"

What do you do with Caesar?
 
Rejoice! The ruling hand figures no more fantasies,
just facts of havoc and bleeding earth
to rule the blazing heavens.
 
That Colossus and his marble filled a narrow world
with faulted stars, error-riddled calculations –
don’t count the coins now over his eyes,
a head of honor, a tale of death;
just dissect, open that chest like a book,
put a pin in it, butterfly,
you will find no bars to hold a spirit
wheeling free from the math of vectors and ascent.
 
Let the shadow of Cicero speak
his SPQR algebra:
 
This broken statue, ruins of Rome
washed out like the bones of conspiracy,
must be read like the carcass it is –
the entrails speak the silent lines of a ghost
asking to be made mountain.
 
So, make him one.


"THE GOLDFISH"

I killed a goldfish once. My mother took me to the pet shop when I was six years old an’ I stood in front of this big ole tank an’ the man who worked there asked me to pick out any fish I wanted an’ so I did. He placed the goldfish in a small plastic bag filled up with water an’ as my momma and me walked across the parking lot to get back to momma’s truck, I had this terrible sense of sadness come over me…what kind of life was this goldfish gonna have? How happy was it ever gonna be? And then I thought, I was gonna be responsible for this creature’s happiness, it was gonna be a full time job to feed it, clean the tank, buy its toys and what have you and I just thought the whole idea of owning a goldfish sucked. So I took my fingers an’ trapped the goldfish in the corner of the bag an’ I squeezed it, its eyes became enlarged an’ I got scared, I turned to my momma and said, “Momma, something’s wrong with the fish?!” After my momma examined the fish she turned to me and said, “Well, we tried.” And with that she tossed it in a nearby garbage and we drove back home without Edgar…I named him Edgar…Edgar the goldfish. Say, you remind me of him, ya know?  You look a little bit like he did, especially now cause your eyes are all swollen up. But, you can stop being sad Cameron, you don’t have to end up like Edgar cause you can change things..for yourself…you can stop yourself from being tossed in the bin; that’s all on you though.


"MERCY IS ABOVE THIS SCEPTRED SWAY"

Infinity is stacked,
a loop of poison, a loop of laughter,
all senses crossed and tossing on the ocean.
 
Though the music is cut
in the alabaster of memory,
the strange frame of nature does not glister
if the sun is not burnished.
 
Shall we not revenge?
 
Song is not here, alone,
it is wept from the vinegar testimony of a needle prick,
howled from the fractured pipes of the organ’s grin,
it remembers all the scripture
cited by the devil –
the keys played by the hands of Erebus
will be brushed free of treasons and stratagems,
bettered and brought to concord.


"A WHITER SHADE OF PALE"

We skipped the light fandango Turned cartwheels 'cross the floor I was feeling kinda seasick The crowd called out for more The room was humming harder As the ceiling flew away When we called out for another drink The waiter brought a tray And so it was that later As the miller told his tale That her face, at first just ghostly Turned a whiter shade of pale She said "there is no reason" And the truth is plain to see But I wandered through my playing cards Would not let her be One of sixteen vestal virgins Who were leaving for the coast And although my eyes were open They might have just as well've been closed And so it was that later As the miller told his tale That her face, at first just ghostly Turned a whiter shade of pale And so it was that later


"IF YOUR BREATH IS PITCHED FOR FIRE, YOU MUST LIGHT IT"

This is the wheel of rehabilitation,
a righteous mountain, a spiral stair
without a railing.
 
The winds will push you headlong
into the fiery flood, the womb hell
born again as a prison,
ribs of ice around the cyclone of your breath;
catch it. Do not let it escape, hold it
in the widening chasm of failures, attempts.
 
There is a hole in the pavement of your virtue,
just sidestep, if you must, or climb
the ladder of your sin. Up or down, direction does not matter –
in a storm, all paths lead to death.
 
This is the flight of redemption,
so, do not ask for charity
in a forge made of faults – the hammer will mold
your vice to victory, your temptation to a keen edge of temper:
 
You will become something better.


"FRIEDRICH ENGELS HAD A BEARD, SO FAT, LIKE FALSTAFF"

There is divinity in odd numbers –
we say they share a center,
orbit equidistant like good communists.
 
If your wallet is long, make it shorter, comrade,
and if short, we’ll give you gold
in clams and oysters.
 
Give some trust,
and we’ll give you some daylight to burn
until the candles and starlight and moonshine are out.
 
We are all married by chance to death,
so let us drink down the unkindness of nativity
together.


"ESSAY ON THUNDER"

A woman made wary by misfortune, writes Stendhal, will not experience this soul-shaking upheaval. Soul-shaking upheaval means something like what he elsewhere calls the curse of passionate love, although my sense is that love here is better understood as either arousal or torpor, and that distinctions in such matters are, while necessary and true, ultimately mythological. Stendhal’s own argument also entails a critique of terminology: of thunderbolts, he says, That ridiculous word ought to be changed—but nevertheless the thing “love at first sight” does exist. 

When I first copied down those sentences from Stendhal, I wrote instead of upheaval the nonword unheaval, which I now think of as upheaval’s uncompromised sibling. On the ceiling of my gynecologist’s exam room is a watercolor of a lurid hummingbird with a few centimeters of beak inside a flower. A hummingbird’s beak is understood to be a sheath for the bird’s tongue, which means the tongue is a knife. Hummingbirds use their beaks to feed, as well as to do battle. There has not yet been a study of what their tongues do in such times of war. 


"IN A FINE FRENZY ROLLING, IMAGINATION BODIES FORTH"

Being naught but patched fools,
we pass back into the forest
through the sun and an arch
in the sky of coiled lightning.
 
Among the trees
we are nothing but legs and dance –
so much wind,
so much rope
accompanied by shadows
and the iron tongue of midnight.
 
This planted place is where we together
like a double cherry grow,
two rivers giving tribute
to each other.
 
As the water rises
past the shifting lines of wit
we will blur like chalk,
and if we are only leaves of a dream
the earth’s girdle will tremble
when our bracts become bears –
that is the true beginning of our end.


"IN RESPONSE TO GOD, I SAY I AM THE MOON"

When a star died, no elegy was written. No note or tweet was sent out saying how many friends it was surrounded by in the last minute of its life or what an encouraging star it had always been in the solar system. I was the only witness. I stood on a moon rock and wanted to cry for my minor loss. I wanted to hold a pen and imagine myself wrapping the star against my chest, relearning its radius and curves, nanometre by nanometre, like remembering my own child at birth. But how could I capture a death that was so alien to my own? Behind the tombstone appeared the charred border of language. God must have blinked, or how could I explain that temporary escape, that I was a bird so close to the sky, that I felt the wind on my flank and had no intention to slant, no impulse to imagine how far it had drifted from the deep-dyed coast where a girl or two pressed their pearly toes in the sand or if it had trudged long from a reed bed deep in the village. All became extraneous. I have tricked time and accessed a mysterious territory where, as suggested, begins the freedom of the mind*. I could cup life and scrutinize it closely, or cast it into the fire and watch its ashes scattered. I understood God hence, his tantrum and delirium, for truth cannot be bestowed in a language that is still tarnished by the breath of its people. That is still half drunk in the bar, stumbling, fumbling, cursing in its own right. A language must be concealed or dead to be sacred, like code, like Latin. But Latin, too, was once tempered and stored in a blood-and-flesh, in stalwart hands writing with love and fury, like those of Caesar and Horatius. It, too, was living, flawed, until all was banished into the relentless water, being soaked with gravity and grit, until we encounter them under a soft pool of light, until we recall, not the letters, but the contour of a familiar tongue, a sweaty thumb, or flaming eyes wrestled with the very same desire for truth and beauty. And should we not forget that truth beauty is never embellished on the silver crescent, nor abandoned by a transparent screen, but buried deep in the core, clasped with dirt and dust?^ The truth is every art seeking for divinity ends in an interrogation of humanity. Because no answer should be given or taken, no definition in its broadest term should be used to measure the realm of a mind. The truth is I want to be no god no bird no star, just in the living room catching the texture of your voice when you recite Plato or Plath or trace keenly a shopping list, when you remind me of the weather and our fingers run into each other on the same passage, when we laugh and reread the line, the poem raging against day and night, how we have raked life and tucked pain back into our hearts again, make it weep, make it live.


"FOR THE LOVE OF PHYSICS"

Oh,
my little vector,
how I follow you 
hither to thither –

thou art 
better than any scalar.

Your resistance 
decreases 
my current
initially, 

but my momentum carries
me through to 
maximum EMF.
.
You accelerate my velocity,
charge my capacitance,

oh, my solenoid 
you incline my potential energy!

You intensify my electric field
summarise Coulomb’s law.

Better than the apple 
are you
for this Newton

No longer am I inert - 

I accelerate towards your force
and try to exert an 

equal but
opposite love
upon you


“POPULATIONS”

I learned that people are obsessed with learning. I learned that I have to eat bacon and cheese for
breakfast, or I might forget the love I used to feel when a stranger’s eye caught mine as I crossed
Winchester on a morning walk. Well, not love. I learned that love might not be real. I learned
that even if I say certain words, I might only mean them as much as my cat who rubs against my
leg after forgetting it already ate two breakfasts. I learned that I can go 618 days without seeing
my family and only just start to miss them. I learned that wheat, onions, beans, apples,
nectarines, garlic, and dairy make me sick, and that 4,725,899 people can die and someone will
still call it a hoax. I learned that I am autistic. I learned that I want more. I learned the lie of an
evening and how long it takes for my desires to become my desires. I learned that feelings come
and go. Like fathers. Like love. Like 617 empty days.


"TO BE IN A BODY"

I can walk for hours in wildflower fields,
and meet no one,
The same way I walked this house’s halls
The same way I followed a boy’s spirit
him to be real: If I could study
how a child looks after
Looking through him is looking
under my tongue. Its hum.
this baby had hers.
I housed two hearts
What separated us was
In my dreams, I waded
—I couldn’t slide into the trunk’s rings:
I was biting the tree’s base. I was a hound.
Anything that could turn wild.
Your fences. Walk toward evening.
If I could hold a lion’s head.
Make way for song. Stay
so short a time. This voice
This voice, so short
a song, a lion’s jaw, a heart
white hard hills
	
up my spine’s white hard hills,
and meet no one.
before a baby moved in my gut.
in this dark house, wanting
his topography to see
he leaves his body.
itself. His name a stone
In the mornings, I had my body--
Believe it, for a time,
that wanted different lives.
my skin and bone webs.
through water: what’s on the other side?
—I couldn’t fold into the tree’s leaves.
I was a horse. A hare. Anything wild.
Someone said, hang a birdhouse.
My hands on my own throat.
If I could place its teeth on my throat.
outside. Because we are together
could be any of us. We are together.
a time. Any of us could be
loud in a bone web,
in this dark house.


"VOICES OF THE AIR"

But then there comes that moment rare
When, for no cause that I can find,
The little voices of the air
Sound above all the sea and wind.

The sea and wind do then obey
And sighing, sighing double notes
Of double basses, content to play
A droning chord for the little throats—

The little throats that sing and rise
Up into the light with lovely ease
And a kind of magical, sweet surprise
To hear and know themselves for these—

For these little voices: the bee, the fly,
The leaf that taps, the pod that breaks,
The breeze on the grass-tops bending by,
The shrill quick sound that the insect makes.


"MYSTERIES AND LOGIC"

Three passions, simple but overwhelmingly strong have governed my life: the longing for love, the search for knowledge, and unbearable pity for the suffering of mankind. In all affairs it's a healthy thing now and then to hang a question mark on the things you have long taken for granted. Fear is the main source of superstition, and one of the main sources of cruelty. To conquer fear is the beginning of wisdom. Men fear thought as they fear nothing else on earth - more than ruin, more even than death. Thought is subversive and revolutionary, destructive and terrible, thought is merciless to privilege, established institutions, and comfortable habits; thought is anarchic and lawless, indifferent to authority, careless of the well-tried wisdom of the ages. Thought looks into the pit of hell and is not afraid. Thought is great and swift and free, the light of the world, and the chief glory of man.


"GARDEN ABSTRACT"

The apple on its bough is her desire,—
Shining suspension, mimic of the sun.
The bough has caught her breath up, and her voice,
Dumbly articulate in the slant and rise
Of branch on branch above her, blurs her eyes.
She is prisoner of the tree and its green fingers.

And so she comes to dream herself the tree,
The wind possessing her, weaving her young veins,
Holding her to the sky and its quick blue,
Drowning the fever of her hands in sunlight.
She has no memory, nor fear, nor hope
Beyond the grass and shadows at her feet.


"GHAZAL"

The sky is a dry pitiless white. The wide rows stretch on into death.
Like famished birds, my hands strip each stalk of its stolen crop: our name.

History is a ship forever setting sail. On either shore: mountains of men,
Oceans of bone, an engine whose teeth shred all that is not our name.

Can you imagine what will sound from us, what we’ll rend and claim
When we find ourselves alone with all we’ve ever sought: our name?

Or perhaps what we seek lives outside of speech, like a tribe of goats
On a mountain above a lake, whose hooves nick away at rock. Our name

Is blown from tree to tree, scattered by the breeze. Who am I to say what,
In that marriage, is lost? For all I know, the grass has caught our name.

Having risen from moan to growl, growl to a hound’s low bray,
The voices catch. No priest, no sinner has yet been taught our name.

Will it thunder up, the call of time? Or lie quiet as bedrock beneath
Our feet? Our name our name our name our fraught, fraught name.


"CAUTION"

Let me introduce you to the featherweight queen
She got Hollywood eyes
But you can't shoot what she's seen
Her momma was a dancer
And that's all that she knew
'Cause when you live in the desert
It's what pretty girls do

Never had a diamond on the sole of her shoes
Just blacktop white trash
Straight out of the news
Doesn't like birthdays
They remind her of why
She can go straight from zero
To the Fourth of July

'Cause it's some kind of sin
To live your whole life
On a might have been

So I'm throwing caution
What's it gonna be?
Tonight the winds of change are blowing wild and free
If I don't get out
Out of this town
I just might be the one who finally burns it down


"BURY ME WITH MY EYES OPEN"

We all enter the world by leaving somewhere else behind. My mother tells me even before I could crawl, I was trying to walk. My coach once told me I moved like a deer - quick and without stopping. I have never not been running to somewhere else. Have you ever seen a deer, dead, split down the center of the road? Cars move by without stopping. This is not unusual where I am from. I see this as a child, face pressed to the glass. Nothing scared me then. I had touched the split wing of a dead bird; I ferried centipedes from one side of the yard to another. But the deer. The flies had burrowed into the open, gaping wound of a side. They were the darkest black I had ever seen and moved in mass, in and out of the holes broken from the skin. The maggots, the moving color of bone. We lived in a place where the summers were mild but long and the deer lived on that road for a week without anything or anyone to wash it away. I have avoided making eye contact with dead deer since; I turn my eyes away, ashamed of the natural end of things. I am not brave anymore. I shy from bugs and turn away at the sight of broken birds. I am also not close to home anymore. I live now where rivers meet oceans, where my neighborhood roads become flood zones; I have run so far that there is nowhere else to go. I do not know if there is a correlation, but I know both things are true. Perhaps in this way, I have broken off a fragment of who I was, sacrificing it for the person I became. Perhaps, if I had known this would happen, I wouldn’t have drifted so far from where deer danced in my backyard. Perhaps, I would have stayed closer to home. Sometimes here, there is rain, and even when it is violent, it is baptismal. Sometimes, I can be still. It may kill me one day, but sometimes, I sit outside and look directly into the eye of the storm.


"RITE"

working with willow rods that’s the method,
bring great bundles of them,
put on the ground scatter them
pronounce them, saying:

“here’s one”
“here’s another one”
“here’s one, there…over there…”

willow rods, very consoling          we’ll clear the ground
you don’t have to be a Scythian…

and then the ones behaving more like women use a different method

they take a piece of the inner bark of a lime tree
cut it into many pieces
which they keep twisting and untwisting around their fingers as they
make effigies of themselves, willow rods of women saying:

“there’s a turn”
“there’s a turning”
“there’s a rowdy one”
“there’s a moist one”

“there’s one we lost to negligent wind”
“another one burned up”
“one folded down a sparrow’s cheek”
“how many turnings in a twisty one?”

a million, more than you can ever hold
makes the pronouncers happy
surveyors of tractor and sage
and when all goes out

remember eclipse telling you this could all go out
women too?

but for love & mystery
willows rods, willows rods
you know this
to fool the hearts of men
staying up all night, notice the moon and its macabre signal
and hemp vapor tents on the horizon
walk upside down in the footprints of the living


"FADE INTO YOU"

I want to hold the hand inside you I want to take the breath that's true I look to you, and I see nothing I look to you to see the truth You live your life, you go in shadows You'll come apart, and you'll go black Some kind of night into your darkness Colors your eyes with what's not there Fade into you Strange you never knew Fade into you I think it's strange you never knew A stranger's light comes on slowly A stranger's heart without a home You put your hands into your head And then smiles cover your heart Fade into you Strange you never knew Fade into you I think it's strange you never knew


“FIRSTS”

A twin bed tucked inside a closet, a hot pink room at the end of a hall.
Your ecstasy overflows, and I think, Is this it?
Late-night phone calls, dreaming Paris, green velveteen cushions,
a piano on hardwood floors in an attic apartment, a bed on the floor.
Time is a movie running backward down the street lined with dogwood trees.
A nickname I’m given because of you, little dick fucker,
a secret taunt of a loser who doesn’t know: sometimes less is more.
A tryst of understanding, your memory twists and frays, a message given,
I am not good for you—so they say—I am not good for you, Your soul in the balance.
We don’t know that this is temporary.
Still a child, roaming with my friends, summer budding from our eyes,
and then, you, curly hair and capricious grin, and your hand takes my heart.
A betrayal, and my memory twists and shames, a message received,
I am not good for Him—so they say—I am not good, Repent, my soul in the balance.
None of this is temporary.
A phone call of a different sort, standing on the curb, my life pans around me.
You sob, and I can’t hear your voice above the music.
We don’t know that this is temporary.


"A MATHEMATICALLY PERFECT HEART"

Leonardo da Vinci took oxen
hearts and poured molten wax into them,
trying to discover how the valves worked,
how the blood entered and exited
the muscle. He made diagrams and wrote
his notes back-to-front in mirror writing—
this might have been because he thought the heart
a secret thing or maybe, being
left-handed, he found it easier
to pull the quill than push against the grain.

From the wax cast of the oxen heart,
he made a mould of gypsum for blowing
thin glass inside. The strange transparent heart
must have caught the light, frozen as it was
in time; mathematically perfect,
an exposed aorta in Italian sun.
But if he had asked it to beat, if
da Vinci had placed it in a body
of his own invention, the body would have
suffocated in immaculate silence.


"TEAPOT BELIEFS"

If I were to suggest that between the Earth and Mars there is a china teapot revolving about the sun in an elliptical orbit, nobody would be able to disprove my assertion provided I were careful to add that the teapot is too small to be revealed even by our most powerful telescopes. But if I were to go on to say that, since my assertion cannot be disproved, it is an intolerable presumption on the part of human reason to doubt it, I should rightly be thought to be talking nonsense. If, however, the existence of such a teapot were affirmed in ancient books, taught as the sacred truth every Sunday, and instilled into the minds of children at school, hesitation to believe in its existence would become a mark of eccentricity and entitle the doubter to the attentions of the psychiatrist in an enlightened age or of the Inquisitor in an earlier time.


“PRACTICE”

You, a knee between my legs,
Me, a tongue colliding—
We were practicing, but for what?
You disappeared. I married the opposite of
Femininity, bones and rough edges, and you
Became an anecdote, a memory, a fragment of shame.


"SUMMER, HIGHLAND FALLS"

They say that these are not the best of times
But they’re the only times I’ve ever known
And I believe there is a time for meditation
In cathedrals of our own

Now, I have seen that sad surrender in my lover’s eyes
And I can only stand apart and sympathize
For we are always what our situations hand us
It’s either sadness or euphoria

So we’ll argue and we’ll compromise
And realize that nothing’s ever changed
For all our mutual experience,
Our separate conclusions are the same

Now we are forced to recognize our inhumanity
Our reason coexists with our insanity
And though we choose between reality and madness
It’s either sadness or euphoria

How thoughtlessly we dissipate our energies
Perhaps we don’t fulfill each others fantasies
And as we stand upon the ledges of our lives,
With our respective similarities
It’s either sadness or euphoria


“JUNIPER SEEDS”

Pine makes
a tenuous home
in my mouth and
you, above, aloof,
move inside me, but
I wonder, How did we get
here? from where we stood
before, and you ask me, Where
do you want it? but the question evades
the forest growing from my throat and I am
lost in the trees and the weeds planted years ago,
hazy, unaware of the flower we might be planting now


“CONVERSATIONS”

What can you tell me that the wall cannot?
I stare for hours and ask her
my questions, hoping she has some kind of
truth that will seep from her flaking,
many-layered paint, but she doesn’t
answer; don’t worry.
But neither do you, your blank stare reflecting
my words without a single ounce of
recognition, of
points registering, of
compassion.
At least the wall doesn’t
have eyes that can gaslight me
without so much
as a single shift.


“LONGING”

I hear the silverware clack as you put it away in the other room,
your extra chores attempts to bridge the divide that grows between us,
and I wonder:
do deep connections exist,
or is this a lie the movies tell us?
Will my soul ever ache for another person,
or will it ache forever for the absence of one,
the space they could have filled
if they had made themselves known to me?


"POMPEII"

I was left to my own devices
Many days fell away with nothing to show
And the walls kept tumbling down in the city that we love
Grey clouds roll over the hills bringing darkness from above

We were caught up and lost in all of our vices
In your pose as the dust settled around us
And the walls kept tumbling down in the city that we love
Grey clouds roll over the hills bringing darkness from above

Oh, oh, where do we begin?
The rubble or our sins?

And the walls kept tumbling down in the city that we love
Grey clouds roll over the hills bringing darkness from above
But if you close your eyes
Does it almost feel like nothing changed at all?
And if you close your eyes
Does it almost feel like you've been here before?
How am I gonna be an optimist about this?

If you close your eyes
Does it almost feel like nothing changed at all?


“THE GIRL IN THE CHECKOUT ISLE”

and does her husband know
that when she sees her, butterflies
twitch
like a school-girl crush, the way her smile
pulls at the corners of her mouth,
just slightly; the way her slight frame holds
so much beauty; does her husband know
that she can’t keep her heart from
longing
for the knowledge of her touch?


“I HAVE LOST A LOT”

What if, when I said your name, it wasn’t a lie anymore? What if it spilled through the cracks in
my marigold Anthropologie curtains and wove between the particles of dust and dissipated into
the air like clove and orange oil room mist, but less heavy, more resilient? What if, when I said
your name, it came with a touch, your hand at the nape of my neck where the hair dye never
seems to reach, your lips hungry against my shoulder? What if your name meant goldenrod and
gleaming and magnificence and your lip print melted into my skin like an invisible tattoo? What
if, when I said your name, you said mine, and we pretended, for a moment, it had always been
that way?


"ALL THE LOVE YOU EVER GET"

Woah, what if this is all the love you ever get?
Woah, you'd do a couple things so differently, I bet
Woah, what if this is all the love I ever know
Woah, I'd say the words that were so hard to say, don't go
So you've fallen in love
So you've fallen apart
What if it hurts like hell
Then it'll hurt like hell
Come on over, come on over here
I'm in the ruins too
I know the wreckage so well
Come on over, come on over here
Woah, what if this is all the love you ever get?
Woah, you'd not worry so much about counting your regrets
Woah, what if this is all the love I'm ever shown
Woah, I'd not be so scared to run into the unknown
So you've fallen in love
So you've fallen apart
What if it hurts like hell
Then it'll hurt like hell
Come on over, come on over here
I'm in the ruins too
I know the wreckage so well
Come on over, come on over here
What if this is all the love you ever get?
What if this is all the love you ever get?
What if this is all the love you ever get?


"STRETCHED LYRIC 4"

Will you be a satanist with me? Mortgage off your soul to buy your dream Vacation home in Florida: The collateral the devil's repossessing from me Trying to score some off-brand ecstasy Will you be an anarchist with me? Sleep in cars and kill the bourgeoisie At least until you find out what a fake I am Spray-paint my initials on an ATM I'd burn the cash and smash my old TV Will you be a nihilist with me? If nothing matters, man, that's a relief Solomon had a point when he wrote Ecclesiastes If nothing can be known, then stupidity is holy If the void becomes a bore, we'll treat ourselves to some self-belief Oh, you know what I should do You wonder If you can even be seen From so far away A slow pull, a seismic drift Leaning over the edge of a continent It's so hard to come back You hang on until it drags You under You put salt in the wound And a kiss on my cheek You butter me up And you sit down to eat You add insult to injury You say you believe in me But you haven't decided About taking or leaving me But you take and you take Like silks up my sleeve Tied corner to corner, never ending Trick after trick, I make the magic And you unrelentingly ask for the secret Neck full of mockingbirds All calling your name I tried to sing it all back Like I heard it, it don't sound the same I'm gnashing my teeth Like a child of Cain If this is a prison, I'm willing to buy my own chain But you take and you take Like silks up my sleeve Tied corner to corner, never ending Trick after trick, I make the magic And you unrelentingly ask for the secret They say the hearts and minds are on your side They say the finish line is in your sights What they don't say is what's on the other side They say the hearts and minds are on your side


"RELICS"

There are trilobyte fossils in Taos – 
we are standing in a rock shop
holding hands, fingers 
sticking out from our palms 
like stone legs. There is no more motion.
We talk about how old they are, how young
we are, what the water must have been like. The ebb
still existing, even now, but the life is gone.

You tell me I’m crying, and I still believe you.
No tenderness in your stone, I touch my own face,
one finger, one drop of my own ocean
I place on the eternal beach of the smallest fossil. 
It costs twenty dollars. You buy it for me, 
handing me a paper bag in the car. 
The wind blows. It’s dry and my lips are chapped. 
I rub chapstick on my ridges. The bag doesn’t move. 


"DEW DOES NOT REMAIN FOR LONG"

The humidity swallows your breath
before it even leaves 
your body. The clouds, whales, 
and the sun shines bleach into your hair.
A soft rumble that could be the sky
or blood 
in your eardrum –  the weight of thunder 
used to be measured in sandbags, 
steep levees at the creek bank,
solid gold insurance claims. The weather girl
flashes teeth about a cold front
in the orange air. Every place you live,
grass child, sky child, concrete child,
the firmament is empty.

There's never enough rain 
anywhere you go.


"WILD CARTOGRAPHY"

I have places inside of me
waiting to be birthed.

Some places are little, stunted:
graves buried under a lake, ghost
towns and places void of hope.

(Hope, that border town. Hope,
that center of my every map.)

Other places are big, old:
bees were the first settlers here
and they drew people, hungry
for their honey.

Bedded on bees’ wings,
the people buried their queen
in a grave of honeycomb
and hoped.

(But hope is not breath.)

Winter is a killing time,
beestung season, Death-home.
She, Death, is another place, but
she, Death, is also a nomad.

I dream her path sometimes,
a dream of a child before she is born.

Death travels light, she travels by day
and travels by night.

My places, kept like keys
of secret locks, are not
holy or wise or even here,
but they are wild; they say
go seek me! come find me! love me!
live inside my walls.

(and walls are not unlike hope.)

Cope with a map of me,
I will: soft as fall leaves, the compass needle
rattles against my ribs.
I breathe into the sunlight,
and my shadow falls true north.


“I WISH THING WERE BETTER FOR YOU”

I realize I don’t know what better means anymore. Every choice has a negative, a consequence.
Two evils of which to be the lesser. I realize we’re all trading on the least worst possible
outcome, but never the best. The fewest bullet wounds, but never zero. The fewest entry points,
but still fewer exits. How would I name a child never meant to live longer than the length of a
breath exhaled to steady a hand? I realize I was never meant to answer that question, and I pack
my uterus in a box and bury it beneath the tree that makes me sneeze. I realize even beauty is
dangerous, and nowhere is safe, as the wind blows more pollen toward my face.


"SPRING MELT"

They separate in March:
the first of our friends

to decide on divorce.
We tiptoe around the month;

we’ve been fighting,
too. Our house is an

over-starched shirt.
The month is dark with rain,

the streets all slick
like sadness. We wait,

rarely patient, for a thaw,
for our hands to unknot

into hands again. But
our friends are an ice floe

breaking apart in spring’s
thick current. We pull

the muck of winter
from the gutters, hope

the water runs clean again;
nothing more than this:

we hold onto each other
like upturned boats—

even if cold can never
really go away, even if

we might always feel the frost
at the edges of our bodies.


"ECZEMA'S LOVER"

We grew up in a greenhouse. Where the pale abyss of the ocean ate at the sand like a roach, where my mother left us stranded. The world was different then: everything a stain of blue hues and silver bleach. My sister’s skin morphed into sandpaper, smelling of fumes and sour cider. I watched this happen. She grew more ill with each day, until she resembled nothing but a wet sponge, a small roach with the belly of a ripe peach. I wasn’t worried.

We grew up in a greenhouse. Buried our mother’s bones in the yard until they grew into an apple orchard, towering over us like lampposts – like light, like telephone wire. We had seen her death coming. The paper always announced murder twenty-five hours prior. For the final supper, we ate with forks in our elbows, a big meal of spices and sauces.

We grew up in a greenhouse. The world was different then! Plastered our necks with orange marmalade, dipped our fingertips in honey and made the fish lick them. We grew up in a greenhouse, our liver a glass vase, our tongues: black worms floating in the Atlantic.


"THE ANIMALS, WHICH ARE IN YOUR MOUTH"

You call the dogs, who are not gentle like wolves.
The dogs come running.
Our claws dig long graves in soft earth, throwing up thunderheads
gravid with soil.
When it rains back down, the sky’s blind sand will trace the contours
of your face and drop from your chin while the dogs worry at your feet.
You open your mouth. You spill like oil and fill our pores.
You name the animals. You fold paper into animals.
You oil our feathers and make us flightless
in the warm discontinuity of your mouth.

You call the birds. Not all birds are a product of your pale gaze,
in the hand or burning in the bush.
You bemoan the lost authenticity of the dinosaur while you allow birds
to nest in the soft crevices of your white matter. Let us peck
your eyes clean of night’s crusted honeycomb rheum
and watch it grow back by evening.

You call the bees. Note that the structural solidity of hexagons
comes from the terror of bees, turning in circles
and pushing each other away with equal and opposite force.
The comb is the shape of their mutual alienation,
a vitreous circle of prole jelly.
This is where your honey comes from.
This is a burden that won’t fit in your kipling mouth.

You call the herd, we the unintended, lowing and butting, only held together
by the dogs of your skin and the white fence of your teeth.
We are quick to infection of hoof and mouth, jostling
in the paddock of your ribs.
(Later, you’ll have to break them like a coroner to get us out.)
Our horns grew in, dexterous triple fleming tines, field and motion and current.
The field is green and dirt beneath and beneath the dirt, a gravel of dry bones.
Our hooves know only green, only forward,
Not hearing the crunch in our steps, the clutching undertow
of paper bones in the long graves in the soft earth of your mouth,
that we dug for ourselves.


“THE ABSENCE OF IT”

Shadows frighten me, lately. Shadows of my own body that I actively make. My body floating
across the top of the chair until the whole of it sits in darkness; my fingers cascading through a
bright portal of light slashed across the cherry wood of the hallway floor like a warning.
When I realize it was me, should I feel better? I don’t. I feel worse.
I pull at the skin on my lips until I taste blood, no matter how many times I tell myself I’ll stop.
When it grows back in small sheets, the edges lift up again, some sheer kind of scab, and I feel
them with my tongue, on my other lip, on his—
I can’t stand it.
I can’t stand the thought of him not being able to stand it.
I can’t stand the way my lips look on camera, mottled mauve on pale skin. There’s either blood
or the reminder of blood, but never the absence of it.
I wonder how long I would have to bleed to get there: the absence of it.


"HEARTLINES"

Oh the river, oh the river, it's running free
And oh the joy, oh the joy it brings to me
But I know it'll have to drown me
Before it can breathe easy
And I've seen it in the flights of birds
I've seen it in you, in the entrails of the animals
The blood running through, but in order to get to the heart
I think sometimes you have to cut through (but you can)
You can, we can, we can
Just keep following
The heartlines on your hand
Just keep following
The heartlines on your hand
Keep it up, I know you can
Just keep following
The heartlines on your hand, 'cause I am
Odyssey on odyssey and land over land
Creeping and crawling like the sea over sand
Still I follow heartlines on your hand
This fantasy, this fallacy, this tumbling stone
Echoes of a city that's long overgrown
Your heart is the only place that I call home
Can I be returned? You can
You can, we can
What a thing to do
Ooh, what a thing to choose
But know, in some way, I'm there with you
Up against the wall on a Wednesday afternoon


"AURORA BOREALIS"

Between clouds I looked up at the sky and down on the ground:
snow clouds, snow cover, the same above as below.
The freeze was sitting everywhere, busy at work:
its huge green needle had the whole Bering Sea to sew.

After landing we hunted Japanese soldiers for seven days.
I shared my army ration with seals at the watering hole.
I didn’t question the wisdom of it. I only saw Eskimos
and a painted top hat on the top of a totem pole.

In the hammock of fog, I was bundled up in fur coats
that swallowed up the body like the snow a heavy gun:
that’s how I lived from day to day. I hadn’t even thought
of you till yesterday evening when the patrol was done.

The light! The light! I heard the cook from the kitchen,
and when I stepped outside, there it was above the ice:
like a fluffy muslin curtain it billowed, swayed, and swung,
swimming closer and away, reminding me of something nice,

but what? I stood there pondering. Ruffled shadows were
rocking the light. With my hand on the doorknob behind,
I stared entranced. A hard voice from inside woke me up:
The door! Suddenly you spread your skirt over my mind.


"DOUSING MYSELF WITH KEROSENE"

I’m coating the walls in earl grey
and drinking Chanel no. 5
I’m dousing myself in kerosene
and eating myself alive

I’ve been carving my bones into paper
and writing with blood from my lungs
I’m dousing myself in kerosene
and burning up everyone

I’ll be singing like starlight from ashes
and collapsing the world into One
I’m dousing myself in kerosene
and imagining I am the sun


“SPECTRUM STANZA”

A day begins the way a day begins: alarm ignored, silk blocking light not blocked by other
fabric. A day begins the way most days begin: late, a rush to wake and locate myself, a crumple
to the floor on unsteady legs, frozen by the choices I give myself driven by obsession: too many
clothes from which to choose, paralyzed as promised moments tick by. A day begins the way
most days begin: drag a brush through blown-out hair meant to last all week because I cannot
hold a blow dryer for very long, powder brushed over pale face that hasn’t seen sun in days—I
stopped counting. A day begins the way a day begins: in best attempts gone untended, intentions
unmoored because it isn’t possible to moor a boat made of papier-mâché.


"WEEDS"

The danger of memory is going
to it for respite. Respite risks
entrapment. Don’t debauch
yourself by living
in some former version of yourself
that was more or less naked. Maybe
it felt better then, but you were
not better. You were smaller, as the rain
gauge must fill to the brim
with its full portion of suffering.

What can memory be in these terrible times?
Only instruction. Not a dwelling.

Or if you must dwell:
The sweet smell of weeds then.
The sweet smell of weeds now.
An endurance. A standoff. A rest.


"THERE IS A FORCE THAT BREAKS THE BODY"

There is a force that breaks the body, inevitable,
the by-product is pain, unexceptional as a rain
gauge, which has become arcane, rhyme, likewise,
unless it’s assonant or internal injury, gloom, joy,
which is also a dish soap, but not the one that rids
seabirds of oil from wrecked tankers, that’s Dawn,
which should change its name to Dusk, irony being
the flip side of sentimentality here in the Iron Age,
ironing out the kinks in despair, turning it to hairdo
from hair, to do, vexing infinitive, much better to be
pain’s host, body of Christ as opposed to the Holy
Ghost, when I have been suffering at times I could
step away from it by embracing it, a blues thing,
a John Donne thing, divest by wrestling, then sing.


"SILENCE IS SO ACCURATE, ROTHKO WROTE"

Accurate like an arrow without a target
and no target in mind.

Silence has its own roar or, not-roar,
just as Rothko wrote “I don’t express myself
in my paintings. I express my not-self.”

A poem that expresses the not-self.
Everything but the self.
The meadow’s veil of fog, but is veil self-referential?

Already, dawn, the not-birds alert to what silence has to offer.

The fog, one of Rothko’s shapes,
hanging there in the not-self, humming.

Mikel, before he died, loved Rothko most.
When he could still think, he put his mind
to those sorts of judgments.

If I pull the fog away like theater curtains, what then?

Sadness shapes the landscape.
The arrow of myself thwacks the nearest tree.
Fog steps closer like a perpetrator or a god.

Oh. I’m weeping.
Tears feed the silence like a mother drops
into her baby not-bird’s open beak
some sweet but dangerous morsel.


"WANT YOU"

you are the soil
not perception.

1. you clamber out, off such long day, you find you tired. it is okay so. you can bury. you can bury yourself. you bury, there is work done there, here to be done here, right now. you… you feel the roar of history, lot of Fathers, the lot of dead Fathers and their spirits, and no more than that hangs. no more than you. your bones carried your soil, your soil that deserves, your precious. quartz, feldspar, mica, clay, oxides, bone, gristle, cartilage¹. precious yours.

2. you no longer have image. in photos your cheek² sharpens, vectors. you can pierce flesh, hearts, brain, eyes. oh, you can be buried under words and you are still there, heavier and lighter than them. you are still there waving. you are still born. you who are born still, angular, burgeoning. your inverse gravestone. your chiral coffin. your hand to hold. your hand to roses. your hand to animals. your hand to soil.


"GREEN EYES"

Honey, you are a rock
Upon which I stand
And I come here to talk
I hope you understand
The green eyes
Yeah, the spotlight
Shines upon you
And how could
Anybody deny you?
I came here with a load
And it feels so much lighter now I met you
And honey, you should know
That I could never go on without you
Green eyes
Honey, you are the sea
Upon which I float
And I came here to talk
I think, you should know
That green eyes
You're the one that I wanted to find
And anyone who tried
To deny you must be out of their minds
Because I came here with a load
And it feels so much lighter since I met you
And honey, you should know
That I could never go on without you


"AS A MAN LAY DYING"

A dying man on screen says, Pardonnez-moi, Monsieur, does nobody understand the ending? I can’t sleep. I’m cold here on the ground. I’ve had eighteen straight whiskies, but it’s a long time since I drank champagne. It must have been the coffee; now either this Indian moose wallpaper goes or I do. Put that bloody cigarette out. Arrange my one hundred and forty-four pillows. Turn up the lights, I want to take a great leap in the dark. Lord, help my poor soul, alive as a curiosity, but done, finished. I can’t go on spoiling life any longer. Go away, I’m all right. It’s all been very interesting, but I’m bored. I want the world to be filled with white fluffy duckies. A party, let’s have a party tomorrow at sunrise. Let us go, I did not get my spaghettios. The fog is rising and I’m losing it. Bring me a bullet proof vest. Kill me or you are a murderer. This is no time for making enemies. I seem to have been only like a boy playing on the seashore and diverting myself now and then in finding a smoother pebble or a prettier shell than the ordinary, whilst the great ocean of truth lay all undiscovered before me. Now comes good sailing, my last voyage. Goodbye, kid. Hurry back. Take away those pillows, I’m going to the bathroom to read the dictionary. It is most beautiful. A certain butterfly is already on the wing. It’s time. I’d like to thank the academy for my lifetime achievement award and now for a final word from our sponsor … oh wow, oh wow, oh wow.


"VAMPIRE EMPIRE"

Watching TV tired, bleeding on the bed
The milk has just expired, all the leaves are dead
I'm not quiet, you've been quiet, just receiving what you said
Reeling, feeding, feeling, filled by everything you fed
I see you as you see yourself through all the books you read
Overwhelmed with guilt and realizing the disease
You give me chills, I've had it with the drills
I'm nothing, you are nothing, we are nothing with the pills
I am empty 'til she fills, alive until she kills
In her vampire empire, I am
Falling, yeah
Falling, yeah
I see you there, rejecting all your earthly power
Protecting and dissecting 'til you've emptied every hour
We jumped into the pond and then come under the shower
You lay upon my pillow and you open like a flower
I wanted to see you naked, I wanted to hear you scream
Wanted to kiss your skin and your everything
I wanted to be your woman, I wanted to be your man
I wanted to be the one that you could understand
You give me chills, I've had it with the drills
I'm nothing, you are nothing, we are nothing with the pills
I'm empty 'til she fills, alive until she kills
In her vampire empire, I am
Falling, yeah
Falling, yeah
Well, I walked into your dagger for the last time
It's like trying to start a fire with matches in the snow
Where you can't seem to hold me, can't seem to let me go
So I can't find surrender and I can't keep control
You turn me inside out, and then you want me outside in
You spin me all around, and then you ask me not to spin
You say you wanna be alone and you want children
You wanna be with me and you wanna be with him
You give me chills, I've had it with the drills
I'm nothing, you are nothing, we are nothing with the pills
I am empty 'til she fills, alive until she kills
In her vampire empire, I am
Falling, yeah
Falling, yeah


"OH JOY BEGIN"

The day you came
Naked, afraid
Young mother screams and pushes you
The day you came
Oh joy begin
Weak little thing
More precious there'll be nothing, no
Oh joy begin

Let's not forget these early days
Remember we begin the same
We lose our way in fear and pain
Oh joy begin

First just one step
One word and then
With laughter sing, oh life begin
First just one step

Let's not forget these early days
Remembering we began the same
We lose our way in fear and hate
Oh joy begin

Innocent kiss
Black magic bliss
First broken bone
Sudden and swift
Oh innocence
Let's not forget these early days
Remember we begin the same
We lose our way in fear and pain
Oh joy begin
Oh joy begin 


"WHERE DOES IT LIVE?"

Where does it live?
you would ask me.
Saucer, cup, spoon—
which shelf, which drawer.
“You might not come home…”
I know, you said.
Three paramedics
had just burst in.
 
Everything had
to have its spot:
book, shirt, key, shoe.
Where does it live?
pen, tape, plug, file.
They picked you up.
Nail, wrench, hammer, awl.
They carried you out.
 
I grabbed my coat.
For a moment
an unhinged storm:
knives leapt from drawers,
extension cords
pliers, screwdrivers
from cabinet doors:
bowls, pots, towels,
paperclips, Band-Aids…
 
Where do we live?
Where do we live?
As plastic containers flew,
I slammed the door
and ran toward you.
Where do you live?
 
And after a long
time, I returned.
Like excited pets
who’d finally settled,
they’d slipped back
to their shelves and slept
for their doors were shut
when I entered alone.


"FLOCKS"

My shadow was bird shaped. They made me stand still while they ran their fingers on its outline. I listened as they counted feathers. They wanted me to talk because when I did, it looked like it sang. I was quiet. When they weren’t there, I pretended my words were birdsong. I ran and my shadow flew behind my steps. I moved my arms and watched its wings. I sat in trees and saw it perch. One day, my shadow wouldn’t move. I tried to pick it up, but it went through my fingers. It started fading. I sat beside it until it disappeared. They told me birds live short lives and that was why my shadow died. I follow flocks now. I run with their shadows. I pretend their shadows are mine.


"COMMUNISM AND TALKING WITH GHOSTS"

From their high places, the hawks stalk
toddlers and leer down at the ghost
of Marcus Aurelius screeching and
bubbling mad purple geometries,
chanted scars etched into young brains:
“I’m cicadas swarming, I’m flame,
I’m a four-and-a-half-hour erection!
I’m a rotted oak filigreed with vine,
I’m asteroid impact, I’m astral projection!”
He’s like this all the time. He pretends it’s falling
into water that shuts his eyes. The hawks
unblinking and him watching them back.
He gnaws a stalk of wheatgrass. He says
“Being dead is as stoic as you can get,”
and the way he says it sounds like a threat.
The raptors chorus and pick
off the smallest and sickly
as the children riot and disperse.
See? Things are never as bad
as they seem. They are worse.


"THE LUCKIEST"

I don't get many things right the first time
In fact, I am told that a lot
Now I know all the wrong turns, the stumbles and falls
Brought me here
And where was I before the day
That I first saw your lovely face?
Now I see it everyday
And I know
That I am
I am
I am
The luckiest
What if I'd been born 50 years before you
In a house on a street where you lived?
Maybe I'd be outside as you passed on your bike
Would I know?
And in a white sea of eyes
I see one pair that I recognize
And I know
That I am
I am
I am
The luckiest
I love you more than I have ever found a way to say to you
Next door there's an old man who lived to his 90's
And one day passed away in his sleep
And his wife, she stayed for a couple of days
And passed away
I'm sorry, I know that's a strange way to tell you that I know we belong
That I know
That I am
I am
I am
The luckiest


“AUTISM VERSE”

I learned that when other people say time is a flat circle they’re joking around, having a bit of
fun. They don’t mean it the way I do—that everything repeats because it’s all happening again
and for the first time and the twentieth time all at once, that we can never fully understand the
meaning of time, a word we invented to name a concept even the smartest of us can’t nail down.
I learned that some biological part of me will always want a baby, and that she’ll sneak into my
dreams and try to change my mind, even though I am an unwoman. I learned and relearned that
stress can make me violently ill and that one single friend who understands can be the difference
between life and death. I learned that if I choose life—because it is always a choice that requires
making—I have to choose it every day. And the next day. And again. And again. I learned that
the choice never stays made, no matter how set it might feel. I learned that tomorrow, everything
will be different and the same and new and old and right and wrong all over again, because time
is a flat circle.


"HELLO, I MUST BE GOING"

When we finally took her cigarettes away
Nana tried to smoke chicken bones, lighting
each gnarled end with matches we forgot to
check her pocket for. “You’re a sweetie” was
her mantra, repeated like her old blue parakeet
she forgot to feed, and it died slowly, like the
smile from her face as she sat in
the blue velour chair, staring out the front window
like she was watching a Garbo movie.
When we came to bring her groceries,
those bags like birthday presents,
she would hike up her sweat pants
like an umpire contemplating a play and
wander to the kitchen, her fingers playing with the
edge of her t-shirt, and peer through
blue eyes, as clean as a slate, as we pulled
cans of fruit cocktail and snack cakes magic-like from
brown paper sacks. She had the looks of Marilyn,
never left the house in any shoes but heels, even
ironed Boompa’s boxers until her mind moved on and
forgot to leave a note. When we came over today
she looked through me like I was a pane of glass. My
face like one she saw once in a magazine ad,
or in the crowd at St. John’s Sunday mass.
She asked me who I was, her voice like the hello you
speak into the phone, distant and hollow like she
was across a lake. The glimmer of recognition in
her face like a dying ember stoked for the last time
before burning out altogether. She put her hands
up to her ashen face, devoid of the makeup she
caked on like Tammy Faye, and felt for her once pretty
eyes, that broke a hundred hearts, as they betrayed
her with tears, splashing down her face, surprising her
like rain on someone else’s cheeks.


"SO IMPOSSIBLE"

So she said, Everyone's going to the party.
Won't you come if I come with a friend for your friend?
I'd be so pleased to see you outside of the classroom
Wearing the smile that I'll bring you
I was hoping to learn a few things, like...
Do you, do you like dishing the dirt on the whole class?
Or talking the big smack?
Or playing the fool?
Or wearing all of the latest fashions?
Or bucking the new trends and wearing your old threads?
Or if you like coffee in the evening
These are a few things that I'd like to know
That I'd like to know.

So I say, I've been scheduled to work but I'll call in.
And my friend isn't busy. He'd be happy to join me.
And maybe my friend and your friend will hit it off.
Or maybe we will.
I'm dying to know...
Do you, do you like dreaming of things so impossible?
Or only the practical?
Or ever the wild?
Or waiting through all your bad, bad days
Just to end them with someone you care about?
And do you like making out?
And long drives?
And brown eyes?
And guys that just don't quite fit in?
Do you like them?
So, yes I'll see you there.


"EMPEROR"

Everything we hear is an opinion, not a fact. Everything we see is a perspective, not the truth. If you are distressed by anything external, the pain is not due to the thing itself, but to your estimate of it; and this you have the power to revoke at any moment. The soul becomes dyed with the colour of its thoughts. Never let the future disturb you. You will meet it, if you have to, with the same weapons of reason which today arm you against the present. Live a good life. If there are gods and they are just, then they will not care how devout you have been, but will welcome you based on the virtues you have lived by. If there are gods, but unjust, then you should not want to worship them. If there are no gods, then you will be gone, but will have lived a noble life that will live on in the memories of your loved ones. Think of yourself as dead. You have lived your life. Now, take what's left and live it properly. What doesn't transmit light creates its own darkness.


"THE PEACOCKS"

Peacocks are just peacocks, and dead peacocks are just dead though
the word just can do a lot of work. I say can to leave room for when
things go wrong. They did, and the peacocks are dead. I want to blame
the boys who hopped the fence, and I want to blame the boys who
built the fence, but a fence is just a fence — like when my father
left for this country, he waved through a fence, and my father is just
my father, a father who wasn’t fit for the Atlantic winters like the peacocks
weren’t fit for the Atlantic winters, and none of them died from the cold.
This is simple, but they died from what killed them. My father says
it wasn’t the boys who hopped the fence or the boys who built the fence
or even the boys who loaded them into the crates and shipped them
over the water when they, like my father, couldn’t swim. He says
none of them drowned and even if they had, it wouldn’t have made
a difference. My father knows how to kill a thing. He says he will
finally die when he can no longer go back to where he comes from.


"YOU ARE FORTY"

This is you: four decades of experience woven into roughened skin and thinning hair. At work you ask the intern who is half your age for help with the new computer program. That was you, once — the brash young tech whiz, brimming with the potential of all the years ahead of you. On candlelit dates you  wear the hipster glasses that make you look young, gloss over the years in your stories, demur when she asks your age even as you try to deduce hers. There will be time, if all goes well, to find out if who you are is good enough.


"THE GODDESS OF LAYING WORDS DOWN ONE BY ONE"

I whisper them, my prayers to her. I pace them out,
an iambic limp, from room to room to door to wind.
That wind blows through me, as it should. I’m gaping
with holes.

Holy holes, but hollow. Hallowed holes but fallow.
The wind curls in and out of them, chill then warm,
filling and emptying each gap. Oh, I can wax rhapsodic
but shallow.

This is the hard news: we have lost everything we thought
was certain. We have to rebuild, here in the barrens,
with our only tools our hands. Lay bricks down, word by word
for shelter.

Sheltering bricks, but battered. Scattered bricks and tattered.
The wind pools and pours, thin then thick, mortaring each gap
with toil and prayer. Building, building. We will regain it all. Each
syllable matters.


“STILLNESS OF TIME”

I think about the effort it takes to walk from the living room to the kitchen, to twist my mouth into one
expression after another. I ask, If energy cannot be created or destroyed, will I run out before I can ever
smile at my wrinkles in the mirror? I think probably not. I can see the wrinkles already. I ask her, Are
wrinkles good or bad? She says, Yes. That’s enough for now. She catches the sun in a jar and puts the jar
in a box she hides under her bed. She says, Not yet. She says, Hold on for one more morning. She says,
Let the sun bloom into a moment of stillness.


"IN THE LIBRARY"

There's a book called
'A Dictionary of Angels.'
No one has opened it in fifty years,
I know, because when I did,
The covers creaked, the pages
Crumbled. There I discovered

The angels were once as plentiful
As species of flies.
The sky at dusk
Used to be thick with them.
You had to wave both arms
Just to keep them away.

Now the sun is shining
Through the tall windows.
The library is a quiet place.
Angels and gods huddled
In dark unopened books.
The great secret lies
On some shelf Miss Jones
Passes every day on her rounds.

She's very tall, so she keeps
Her head tipped as if listening.
The books are whispering.
I hear nothing, but she does.


"HOURGLASS"

Give me back the days when I was the beach
and you were the ocean, kissing me but tasting sand;
would you please churn your deep volcanoes
and give me those pearls you stole?


"CREATION"

What a lousy earth! He wondered how many people were destitute that same night even in his own prosperous country, how many homes were shanties, how many husbands were drunk and wives socked, and how many children were bullied, abused, or abandoned. How many families hungered for food they could not afford to buy? How many hearts were broken? How many suicides would take place that same night, how many people would go insane? How many cockroaches and landlords would triumph? How many winners were losers, successes failures, and rich men poor men? How many wise guys were stupid? How many happy endings were unhappy endings? How many honest men were liars, brave men cowards, loyal men traitors, how many sainted men were corrupt, how many people in positions of trust had sold their souls to bodyguards, how many had never had souls? How many straight-and-narrow paths were crooked paths? How many best families were worst families and how many good people were bad people? When you added them all up and then subtracted, you might be left with only the children, and perhaps with Albert Einstein and an old violinist or sculptor somewhere.


"THE STORY THAT THE SMALL THINGS TELL"

Back in the fields that I came from,
I danced with a deer mask on.
I was a brave and bloody thing.

I was full of teeth and tongue and tendons
And when the red sun rose,
I was realer than any animal,
Realer than the cows that watched me
With eyes like tapioca pearls.
Realer than the pigs that would eat my body,
Given the chance.

I want to haunt
Old buildings in the dark again
With the sound of my stomping.
To become the animal-god
That could eat my tiny body
And forget it ever knew
How to be afraid.


"BEST DECEPTIONS"

I heard about the trip. I heard about your souveneirs. I heard about the cool breeze in the cool nights And the cool guys That you spent them with. I guess i should have heard of them from you I guess i should have heard of them from you Don't you see, don't you see, That the charade is over? And all the best deceptions And the clever cover story awards Go to you. So kiss me hard 'cuz this'll be the last time that i let you. You will be back someday And this awkward kiss That tells of other people's lips Will be of service, to giving you away. I heard about your regrets. I heard that you were feeling sorry. I heard from someone that you wished you could Set things right between us. I guess I should have heard of that from you I guess I should have heard of that from you So don't you see, don't you see, That the charade is over? And all the best deceptions And the clever cover story awards Go to you. So kiss me hard 'cuz this'll be the last time that i let you. You will be back someday, And this awkward kiss that screams of other people's lips Will be of service In giving you away. To giving you away. I'm waiting for blood To flow to my fingers I'll be all right when my hands get warm. Ignoring the phone, I'd rather say nothing, I'd rather you never heard my voice. You're calling too late, Too late to be gracious. And you do not warrant long good-byes. You're calling too late, You're calling too late.


"THESEUS' DISTANCE"
 
See the map –
these pins are me.
 
Stainless anchors, their weighted hooks, hooked
to scatterplot events
on a plane, not a line.
 
There is no great circle,
no calculated best fit to drag me around or niche me.
 
The dots are ways to measure
Theseus’ distance –
the distance between now and before,
what is and what it came from.
 
A steel bar,
its atoms split and rolled.
 
So many heads
thinking this is home;
all of them wrong.
 
Home is a finite point,
in the middle of the fault-line.

 
"YOU GO EVERY DIRECTION IN AN ELEVATOR"

 
from the anvil’s head
you loose your lightning tongue –
thunder speaks for you.

We stand soaking in the shower, cedar wet beneath our feet, red bricks turning brown as down the rain falls, down each other’s wet mouths, our strident tongues, past walls of smiling teeth that draw blood when nobody’s watching. This is still the movie moment, the one where you lift your uncontainable heel, where a windblown strand of your hair parts our laughing lips, where I still love you in your white dress spattered with red flowers. But we have to go inside, and while we rise together the soft elevator drops my stomach, knowing when the doors part they’re actually closing. And we’re done.

the empty sound burns,
hollows out my secret space –
white hot ghost scars


"AFTERIMAGES"

The woman in the photograph
stands in the foreground
of some blurred landscape,
nameless and tree-full.

She is looking away, collar
turned up, crows floating
in mid-air like question marks.

Behind her, fox prints mark
the snow’s drifts,
or maybe they are only flaws,
afterimages in the sepia.
I want them to be fox prints.

Standing in the vintage shop
I wonder how she arrived here,
what careless family lost this heirloom.
I’d conjure a whole life for her
but she’s already inhabited.

I hold it so long that the pale gold
seeps out of the photograph
and stains my fingers
as I wonder over and over again
how long it’s been since her lungs
drank in that snow-bright air
and where she’s gone,
whether she crawled into the fox
and ran off to consume
a whole forest.


"FLAG WAVING"

What is a country? A country is a piece of land surrounded on all sides by boundaries, usually unnatural. Englishmen are dying for England, Americans are dying for America, Germans are dying for Germany, Russians are dying for Russia. There are now fifty or sixty countries fighting in this war. Surely so many countries can't all be worth dying for.


"AND X-RAY VISION TO FIND THE BEER"
 
My father is a superhero,
has no special powers,
wears glasses for nearsightedness,
dons jumpsuits for car repairs,
hangs his hat with reluctance,
works around the clock,
gets injured and carries on,
drinks wine because it tastes good,
guards his emotions with distance,
is only there if you need him.


"SLIDE"

Could you whisper in my ear
The things you wanna feel?
I'd give you anything
To feel it comin'
Do you wake up on your own
And wonder where you are?
You live with all your faults
I wanna wake up where you are
I won't say anything at all
So why don't you slide?
Yeah, I'm gonna let it slide
Don't you love the life you killed?
The priest is on the phone
Your father hit the wall
Your ma' disowned you
Don't suppose I'll ever know
What it means to be a man
It's something I can't change
I'll live around it
I wanna wake up where you are
I won't say anything at all
And I'll do anything you ever dreamed to be complete
Little pieces of the nothing that fall
Put your arms around me
What you feel is what you are
And what you are is beautiful
Do you wanna get married?
Or run away?
I wanna wake up where you are
And I won't say anything
Yeah, slide between the sheets of all them beds you never knew
Why don't you slide into my room?
Just slide into my room
Oh, we'll run away, run away, run away


“BLEAK”

Today there has been so much talk of things exploding into other things, so much that we all become curious, that we all run outside into the hot streets and hug. Romance is a grotto of eager stones anticipating light, or a girl whose teeth you can always see. With more sparkle and pop is the only way to live. Your confetti tongue explodes into acid jazz. Small typewriters that other people keep in their eyes click away at all our farewell parties. It is hard to pack for the rest of your life. Someone is always eating cold cucumber noodles. Someone will drop by later to help dismantle some furniture. A lot can go wrong if you sleep or think, but the trees go on waving their broken little hands.


"MEMORY IS A TELESCOPE"

On Facebook my sister-in-law discovers a photograph of the house
where she and my husband grew up. Towering sycamores

dwarf the roofline. He recalls he dug the holes deep,
tamped down rich loam. She doesn’t remember planting trees.

Memory is a telescope—it gathers light from dead stars,
pinpoints the timeworn farmhouse ten miles from town

—no neighbors, no fences. As gray as loneliness,
sagging curtains shroud narrow windows.

Focus reset, the telescope magnifies dust-motes
adrift in my husband’s sweltering attic bedroom—

miniature galaxies spin through twin beams from windows
close-set like roosters’ eyes. Under the peaked roof we sleep

among relics: Father’s accordion—fire-engine red, keys yellow
like the old man’s teeth. Mother’s treadle sewing machine,

her mother’s buxom Victorian manequin.
In a cardboard box of dog-eared snapshots

ancestors beg to be named.
The telescope zooms in on edgy face-offs

like freeze-frames in a black & white movie.
In one shoebox bedroom sisters butt heads;

in the other, Father harangues Mother.
The house hisses—a kettle about to boil over.

Muggy days, mind-numbing as after-school detentions,
sweaty nights, dank sheets, mosquitoes’ whine…

At the vanishing point where our telescopes lose resolution
my husband’s memories converge with mine.


"WHEN I WAS YOUNG"

When I was young the world wasn’t so fully formed as it is now. They say it’s better, safer now, with all the gaps filled in, and I suppose it is. It used to be dangerous just to walk down the street. The sidewalks and streets were often clear enough, though not so clear as the destination points they stretched between, and if you glanced to either side you would see the suggestion of grass, or what might be a shrub. If you looked at it, thinking perhaps it was a shrub, it would in time come to look indeed very much like a shrub; whereas, if you looked at it and thought it was a tree it would come to look like that instead. But if you happened to step off the path without thinking you might step onto what looked like ground but had never really been clearly determined to be firmament, and you might fall through it into a space that no one had ever thought about at all. I remember the signs everywhere, hung on a tree or phone pole in an otherwise sketchy landscape saying “Think about your surroundings – Help make our reality concrete”. Of course, that caused all sorts problems. People would read the sign, and think about reality being made of concrete, and then parts of reality would start to turn into concrete that weren’t supposed to be. The signs were reworded to say “Think about your surroundings – Help solidify our reality”, and after the obvious problems with that phrasing they were changed to “Think about your surroundings – Help define our reality”. It was hard to remember to think about the tangible all the time, with so many other things to worry about. I was many a time late for school, because there weren’t enough people at the bus stop all thinking about a bus pulling around the corner and opening it’s doors to us. The buses didn’t need drivers then, because no one had really considered what made them go. Before they made the legislation people thought all sorts of dangerous and absurd things were real – witches, dragons, hell, god. The indefinite form of the universe made it susceptible to any crazy theory that people came up with, until they invented the laws of nature and got everyone on board with them. Yes, it’s much better, the way things are now. But every now and then I remember how it felt when everything beyond my sight would fall into abstraction. When on a train hurtling through the unformed blackness between station stops, the tracks and the wheels would cease to exist, and the bright interior of the train would become nothing more than a comet in the dark, and sometimes as I peered down out of the windows like holes cut through construction paper into the inkiness below, I would see stars.


"WHAT PEOPLE ARE MADE OF"

Rag weed tall better hope that his ladder don't crack
Or he'll hit the ground low, hard and out of his back
At the battle at the bottom of the ocean, well the dead
Do rise
You need proof I got proof at the surface you can watch
'Em float by
Way in back of the room, there sits a cage
Inside it's a clock that you can win if you can guess its age
Which you never can do 'cause the time it constantly changes
For luck or lack
I guess that is the saying
On the first page of the book of blue it read
"If you read this page, than that'll be your death"
By then it was too late
And you wound up on an island of shells and bones that
Bodies had left
And the one thing you taught me
'bout human beings was this
They ain't made of nothin' but water and shit
 

"PINEBLOODED"

My ashes pump wingless blood,
green and brown and unfamiliar,
through channels spanning
out, from my central year
out, to the new soft flesh
beneath the cracked iron of my skin,
my knotted feet go nowhere,
mirror my exultant, upward stretch,
a hundred thin fingers fluttering
above the subtle shift
of my mighty wooden spine
in the savage wet spring wind,
I bend and bow and spread
seeds, umber bombs of beauty,
the clouds my constant gods
bestowing rain and stealing sun,
and this life, no different than before.


"CAT'S CRADLE STRETCHED ACROSS TIME"

Perhaps, when we remember wars, we should take off our clothes and paint ourselves blue and go on all fours all day long and grunt like pigs. That would surely be more appropriate than noble oratory and shows of flags and well-oiled guns. Artists use frauds to make human beings seem more wonderful than they really are. Dancers show us human beings who move much more gracefully than human beings really move. Films and books and plays show us people talking much more entertainingly than people really talk, make paltry human enterprises seem important. Singers and musicians show us human beings making sounds far more lovely than human beings really make. Architects give us temples in which something marvelous is obviously going on. Actually, practically nothing is going on. I've often thought there ought to be a manual to hand to little kids, telling them what kind of planet they're on, why they don't fall off it, how much time they've probably got here, how to avoid poison ivy, and so on. I tried to write one once. It was called Welcome to Earth. But I got stuck on explaining why we don't fall off the planet. Gravity is just a word. It doesn't explain anything. If I could get past gravity, I'd tell them how we reproduce, how long we've been here, apparently, and a little bit about evolution. I didn't learn until I was in college about all the other cultures, and I should have learned that in the first grade. A first grader should understand that his or her culture isn't a rational invention; that there are thousands of other cultures and they all work pretty well; that all cultures function on faith rather than truth; that there are lots of alternatives to our own society. Cultural relativity is defensible and attractive. It's also a source of hope. It means we don't have to continue this way if we don't like it. The things other people have put into my head, at any rate, do not fit together nicely, are often useless and ugly, are out of proportion with one another, are out of proportion with life as it really is outside my head. People took such awful chances with chemicals and their bodies because they wanted the quality of their lives to improve. They lived in ugly places where there were only ugly things to do. They didn't own doodley-squat, so they couldn't improve their surroundings. so they did their best to make their insides beautiful instead.


"POSTLUDE"

The human swansong is radioactive,
bleeding out the afterlife
in decay
of full-bodied isotopes,
of thin-bodied corpses,
of animal bones
touched by the godforce
of a single metal raindrop—

it was pewter-colored cancer
growing on the face of the sky,
screaming
toward the ground—

a requiem
of light and the darkness of tombs
marked by untouched dinner plates
and interlocked knots of skeletons,
marked by flowers on rooftops
and deer grazing in the living room,
marked by snowing statues of ash
forever in the middle of something.


"CHARACTER"

It was miraculous. It was almost no trick at all, he saw, to turn vice into virtue and slander into truth, impotence into abstinence, arrogance into humility, plunder into philanthropy, thievery into honor, blasphemy into wisdom, brutality into patriotism, and sadism into justice. Anybody could do it; it required no brains at all. It merely required no character. 


"ENTOMOMANCY"

Martha raises centipedes, divines
the weather from shed skin.
It’s going to be a harsh winter.
I don’t question what remains,

know better than to look for answers
in the dust any more than the decay.
Martha opens a book of fungi, points
to each illustration, dripping down

the page. It’s raining now. She tells me,
this spindly one will only kill you
if you are a poor host. So I practice
setting the table for ten, polishing

the good China, pouring the wine.
Martha takes me foraging for worms.
She dips a hand into wet soil
as easily as into shadow, returns

with half a dozen worms reading her palm.
They scrutinize her lifeline, and Martha smiles,
lets them back down to the earth, tells me
there are yet other ways of becoming, and still
it’s raining, so I believe her. I do.


"CHAOS OF FISTFIGHTS"

so you thread yourself through the chaos of fistfights and handcuffs with a mouthful of stolen holiness that stains a purple line on your teeth you brush away in the morning staring into your own unforgiving eyes. already the money is worth less and the skin is peeling away faster than chapstick can fix. and then the headlines watch jesus christ and judas iscariot lock lips, you hardly recognise your features, distant, grainy, indistinct beside an old mugshot, hair full of glitter, face black and blue.


"SWANS"

Your shirt was black-crow, like
your hair, like
your boots and the secrets they carried,
but your smile-sound was ten suns –
a million lux exploding
at once, too much to hold in
a single mouth, you shared yours with me
in frets and wet, pink, strawberry muscle,
sharp like a war-needle
in my throat, the wind spoke silent oaths –
and for all the stars between your lips,
I did not see the shadows,
the circling birds, I could not augur
the weather of weapons, and you,
you did not hear, you roared
your own black song in the red wound-sea,
and began the long swim from your bath
down the swan-road,
and the dress you wore was black-crow, like
my mouth.

"ODYSSEUS"

I can see your room only with my eyes closed now—
that’s how little I understand anything at all—and you
sitting up as I entered, and in one motion you throwing
off your nightgown, cornflowers and flannel, and the moment
catching your hair’s wildness in an insolent shrug,
and then I was Odysseus naked before Nausicaä—but no
you were naked—I was merely doomed, and I moved
as into the twilight of a cave, like a man loving his own
ruin, happy for his wounds and happy for the wounds
to come. Maybe a spark jumped, but there is no name
for the god of fragments—there was just a fire I believed in.
And there is still a fire that I believe in. Like the nymph,
incandescent in the glade, from whom the man should have
run in terror instead of begging her to renounce her
godliness in the name of carnal love. Still, there were
old men once in their robes and togas who were wise and
famously schooled by a woman, and they told us that
everything here is a shadow of something else—like a song
plucked on strings that implies two bodies dancing in an
ecstasy beyond all earthly knowing. Where is your bed
now? Your prodigal body that whole polities might worship?
In what world? That is what I am asking, love. What world?


"TIME"

We are the centuries... We have your eoliths and your mesoliths and your neoliths. We have your Babylons and your Pompeiis, your Caesars and your chromium-plated (vital-ingredient impregnated) artifacts. We have your bloody hatchets and your Hiroshimas. We march in spite of Hell, we do – Atrophy, Entropy, and Proteus vulgaris, telling bawdy jokes about a farm girl name of Eve and a traveling salesman called Lucifer. We bury your dead and their reputations. We bury you. We are the centuries. Be born then, gasp wind, screech at the surgeon’s slap, seek manhood, taste a little godhood, feel pain, give birth, struggle a little while, succumb: (Dying, leave quietly by the rear exit, please.) Generation, regeneration, again, again, as in a ritual, with blood-stained vestments and nail-torn hands, children of Merlin, chasing a gleam. Children, too, of Eve, forever building Edens – and kicking them apart in berserk fury because somehow it isn’t the same.


"BEDTIME STORY"

I talked to Mom today,
you don’t remember her,
but you birthed her sometime 70 years ago, anyway
she told me you were dying,
and I’m grateful you probably don’t remember
the doctor, leaning close to the nurse, whispering,
“Six months, max.”

You’re retaining water;
modern medicine says your kidneys are shutting down,
that your heart is failing,
but I think the water is just a substitute
for the weight of lost memories –
don’t worry,
I have so many.

Let me tell you:
one time, we picked up metal scraps in the alley –
Dad melted them down at work,
cut and carved them into a magic amulet –
on the way we battled comic book villains,
and at night we cut out our own monsters,
and taped them to the wall to scare away nightmares.

The paper monsters don’t work anymore,
I’m too old and they’ve gotten too smart
with their fees and paperwork and responsibilities –
I want to come visit,
but some pirates took my money, and Mom is busy
trying to forget you with her credit card
and she started a new exercise routine of running away.

I want to play a game. Go hide, hide as best you can,
in a place God himself couldn’t find you –
someplace better than a grave, no,
and ditch the hospital gown –
go hide in our history, let the water disappear,
and I’ll send you stories you won’t remember.
Let me start with the time you didn’t die.


"FRANNY AND ZOOEY"

I'm sick of just liking people. I wish to God I could meet somebody I could respect. I'm sick of not having the courage to be an absolute nobody. I’m just sick of ego, ego, ego. My own and everybody else’s. I’m sick of everybody that wants to get somewhere, do something distinguished and all, be somebody interesting. It’s disgusting. I don’t think it would have all got me quite so down if just once in a while—just once in a while—there was at least some polite little perfunctory implication that knowledge should lead to wisdom, and that if it doesn't, it's just a disgusting waste of time! But there never is! You never even hear any hints dropped on a campus that wisdom is supposed to be the goal of knowledge. You hardly ever even hear the word 'wisdom' mentioned!


"BASTARD"

The old bastard left his ties and his suit
A brown box, mothballs and bowling shoes
And his opinion so you'd never have to choose
Pretty soon, you'll be an old bastard too
You get smaller as the world gets big
The more you know you know you don't know shit
"The whiz man" will never fit you like "the whiz kid" did
So why you gotta act like you know when you don't know?
It's okay if you don't know everything
So why you gotta act like you know when you don't know?
It's okay if you don't know everything
Close your eyes close your ears young man
You've seen and heard all an old man can
Spread the facts on the floor like a fan
Throw away the ones that make you feel bad
Kids today gettin' old too fast
They can't wait to grow up so they can kiss some ass
They get nostalgic about the last ten years
Before the last ten years have passed
So why you gotta act like you know when you don't know?
It's okay if you don't know everything
So why you gotta act like you know when you don't know?
It's okay if you don't know everything
Tears land on a hand on the chest
The old bastard had a paradigm arrest
He got smaller as the world got big
The more he knew he knew he didn't know shit
"The whiz man" never fit him like "the whiz kid" did
So why you gotta act like you know when you don't know?
It's okay if you don't know everything
So why you gotta act like you know when you don't know?
It's okay if you don't know everything


"DRAMA TWO"

Let X equal the quantity of all quantities of X. Let X equal the cold. It is cold in December. The months of cold equal November through February. There are four months of cold, and four of heat, leaving four months of indeterminate temperature. In February it snows. In March the Lake is a lake of ice. In September the students come back and the bookstores are full. Let X equal the month of full bookstores. The number of books approaches infinity as the number of months of cold approaches four. I will never be as cold now as I will in the future. The future of cold is infinite. The future of heat is the future of cold. The bookstores are infinite and so are never full except in September. A taste for the mysteries of numbers is excessively rare, but when a person of the sex which, according to our customs and prejudices, must encounter infinitely more difficulties than men to familiarize herself with these thorny researches, succeeds nevertheless in penetrating the most obscure parts of them, then without a doubt she must have the noblest courage, quite extraordinary talents, and superior genius.


"NIMBUS ARCHIPELAGO"

I.         We are taught to hallucinate from a young age –
           imagine friends or a fat white elephant in the sky,
           build mansions, castles in the air –  
           ideas, so impossible.
                   
                       “One day,” we say,
                       playing doctor in the grass of the ditch,
                       “we’ll own an island, we’ll own all the islands,
                       not the ones between continents of debt and depression,
                       no, the ones sailing the infinite blue above our heads;
                       we’ll grow cotton candy, construct groundscrapers,
                       use lightning in our table lamps,
                       travel together using polished chrome jetpacks.”      

II.       There’s a fine line
           between creativity and insanity, between dreams
           and the pipes they leak from –
           even the heavens have plumbing problems.
           

                       “Get under the umbrella,” I say,
                       watching you dance, words drowned out by the rain,
                       “don’t blame me if you catch your death,
                       I’m out of chicken soup and apologies.”
                       But you are already dissolving
                       like a cowboy in the sunset, except you don’t ride
                       toward any known horizon; you just grin,
                       “It’s just a little water,” and don’t leave so much as a hat.

III.      “I still don’t believe in ghosts,” I say,
           feeling your laugh before I hear it –
           the flash and then the thunder –  “Then what are clouds?
           Don’t you see their restless shift? Ancestors, childhoods,
           reduced to bone and vapor, suspended
           foundations, waiting to be built upon.”
           Silence returns, and I feel the ectoplasm –
           it smells like ozone but feels like the map of your skin.

                       The aftertaste of loss is a lot like waking up: fragments,
                       black, alone – the nimbus archipelago crawls
                       across the broken anatomy of sky
                        with the tenderness of vinegar.


"SLEEP WELL BEAST"

We've been stuck out here in the hallway for way way too long
I'm at a loss, I'm at a loss. I'm losing grip. The fabric's ripped
Go back to sleep, let me drive, let me think, let me figure it out
How to get us back to the place where we were when we first went out
I'll tell you about it some time, the time we left
Losing parents, losing sense
I don't know what we should do
Became a father when I was still a son, she brings it out in you
See you at the end of the party with your wild white eyes
Filling up the teacup with gin in your secret postcard life
I'll tell you about it some time, the time we left
We leave our saviors wrapped around the necks of new machines
Or at the ends of threads that hold their bodies to the ground
And then the men who look a little like they felt like me
Offered them some bottled water, then they cut them down
I came back to see if you were here, but everything was different
Your voice was low, you blended in, I could barely hear you speak
You were always my last second bright spot in the distance
Thought that you were something good
That I would always keep
I'll still destroy you some day, sleep well beast, you as well, beast


"STAR AND HARBOUR"

he called her name
on the landing by the stairs
she smiled like a child
she had red ribbons in her hair
she said- what about that, 
you’ve been on my mind lately
I’ve been thinking about you baby
and I didn’t expect to see you here
after all these years

chorus: if i am your star
and you are my harbor 
then you'll kiss me like a comet
and i'll love you like a sailor
and i guess those ships all lost at sea
look up at night and they follow me 
back home to you.

he said with or without the rock
you’ve always been a star to me
she said- that’s funny, recently
I’ve been feeling so burned out

he said- no matter wrong or right
you still look just as bright
as I remember you
back in school
are you still in school?

she said I’m learning Portuguese
and liberation theology
and it’s enough for me, it’s enough for me
most days

but I’ve been thinking about the way
your safety poured into my brain
I never let you know
you were my harbor long ago
was it really so long ago?


"A.M. RADIO"

Standin' on the corner, I could listen to the radio
When the savior sang from the fire escape on the second floor
You were always saying we would make it to the catacombs
In the end, it came when you wrote my name on the bathroom stall
If the photograph doesn't bring you back
If the final chapter isn't ever after
I remember wakin' up the neighbor like a stadium
Yeah, you ran upstairs, screamin' no one cared and the band played on
Even in the limo, you were feelin' like an animal
At the traffic light, when you blew your mind on a mobile phone?
Day and night, my love
You said the blood was on my hands
In the minivan, with your headphones in
Did you write your letters to your shitty friends?
And all this time, you said to me
My love will never die
Long, as you run
I couldn't give you up
Forever run
I couldn't give you up


"STEPPING INTO A BLACK HOLE"

In a mind-numbing geography class, M. stops listening and draws the Orion constellation on a page of her squared notebook. She scribbles a question, shows it to me: Name the stars in the Orion constellation. I grab her notebook and write, Easy. Orion’s belt: Alnitak,  Alnilam, and Mintaka. The right shoulder is Bellatrix. The left shoulder is Betelgeuse. Betelgeuse shines red. Meissa marks its head. The right knee is Rigel, the left is Saiph. The center of his sword, The Orion Nebula. She nods, smiling slightly. In which constellation Aldebaran is? I write. Taurus, of course, she writes back. I confirm, and M. writes another question. We keep testing each other until the end of class. Some time ago, M. and I decided to become astronauts, so this is our way to motivate ourselves to study hard for the upcoming high school entrance exams. Our ultimate dream is to travel to space, find a black hole, and enter: we’d happily sacrifice our lives discovering the unknown. At the schoolyard, “Maybe we won't die,” I say, chewing the straw of my chocolate milk. “We may very well come out of it somehow, and end up in a different universe.” M. nods enthusiastically as she agrees with me. “We'll be the first humans to discover another universe,” she says, drinking her banana milk smugly. I see the boy who has rejected me a week ago and started to date another girl. He stands not ten meters away, laughing. I silently watch him, envying the long, blonde hair and big blue eyes of his new girlfriend. I know the girl. She once told me in the girl's bathroom that she was going to name her future daughter Asia. I may never have a daughter in the future. Nor a son. I'm preparing to sacrifice myself in the name of science after all. Maybe he'll read my name in the newspapers years later, and regret his current choice of girlfriend because her only aspiration is to find Asia, but I seek another universe. Everything I don't have, she has, but I could show him the constellations in the night sky and name the stars. I could kiss him under the light of Venus. He wouldn't know blue eyes from the hazel ones then, nor blonde hair from chestnut. He puts an arm around her shoulder. A ball of lava burns in my stomach. I wonder if they’ll have a daughter in the future. If I’ll have a girl, I’ll name her Europa. “That’s enough,” M. says, taking my arm and leading me away, “Let’s go somewhere we can't see them.” But where, I want to say, to space? Doesn’t M. know that now those two are everywhere? M. snaps her fingers in front of my eyes. I look at her. “Count me the stars in the Cassiopeia constellation,” she says. 


"NOBODY ELSE WILL BE THERE"

You said we're not so tied together
What did you mean?
Meet me in the stairwell in a second
For a glass of gin
Nobody else will be there then
Nobody else will be there
Nobody else will be there then
Nobody else will be there
Can you remind me the building you live in
I'm on my way
It's getting cold again but New York's gorgeous
It's a subway day
Nobody else will be there then
Nobody else will be there
Nobody else will be there then
Nobody else will be there
Why are we still out here?
Holding our coats
We look like children
Goodbyes always take us half an hour
Can't we just go home?
Hey baby, where were you back then?
When I needed your hand
I thought that when I stuck my neck out
I'd get you out of your shell
My faith is sick and my skin is thin as ever
I need you alone
Goodbyes always take us half an hour
Can't we just go home?
Nobody else will be there then
Nobody else will be there
Nobody else will be there then
Nobody else will be there


"AMBASSADOR"

We speak now or I do, and others do. You've never spoken before. You will. You'll be able to say how the city is a pit and a hill and a standard and an animal that hunts and a vessel on the sea and the sea and how we are fish in it, not like the man who swims weekly with fish but the fish with which he swims, the water, the pool. I love you, you light me, warm me, you are suns. You have never spoken before. I don't want to be a simile anymore. I want to be a metaphor. Being a child is like nothing. It's only being. Later, when we think about it, we make it into youth. 


"ALL COMES CRASHING"

Starting over won't be easy, broken, divided
Split tomorrow from today
Knowing what you know just makes it harder to think straight
Starting over after it breaks
Starting over when the story's got an astounding twist
You better turn that page
When push it comes to shove
We do not fall out of love
We double down, we do not fade
For all I know
This might be my last night
If that's how it goes, there's no one
I would rather be lying beside
When it all comes crashing
When it all comes crashing
Starting over won't be easy
Damage be damned
Please say you love me just as I am
Starting over won't be easy
Misunderstand that pattern
Fear is forcing your hand
Knowing what you know just makes it harder to think straight
Starting over after it all breaks
When push it comes to shove
We do not fall out of love
We double down, we do not fade
For all I know
This might be my last night
If that's how it goes, there's no one
I would rather be lying beside
If all we knew
Came crashing down tonight
I'd be with you, and there's no one
I would rather be dying beside
When it all comes crashing
All comes crashing down
When it all comes crashing
All comes crashing down
We'll come crashing down together
Don't expect to live forever
We'll come crashing down together
If it all comes crashing down tonight
We'll come crashing down together
Don't expect to live forever
We'll come crashing down together
When it all comes crashing, crashing, crashing
For all I know
This might be my last night
If that's how it goes, there's no one
I would rather be lying beside
If all we knew
Came crashing down tonight
I'd be with you, and there's no one
I would rather be dying beside
When it all comes crashing


"APPLE, FALLEN"

Virginia takes her coat off. I make her tea. She removes the stones from her pockets, arranging them carefully in size order on my kitchen table. Each vowel she utters is like a Fabergé egg. She asks, what it’s like to live with someone like me? I lift the stones into my arms, cradle their awkward, disparate weights to me, like a fretting child who won’t sleep or ever love me back. Like this, I reply.


"MY TEARS RICHOCHET"

We gather here, we line up
Weepin' in a sunlit room, and
If I'm on fire, you'll be made of ashes too
Even on my worst day, did I deserve, babe
All the hell you gave me?
'Cause I loved you, I swear I loved you
'Til my dying day
I didn't have it in myself to go with grace
And you're the hero flying around, saving face
And if I'm dead to you, why are you at the wake?
Cursing my name, wishing I stayed
Look at how my tears ricochet
We gather stones, never knowing what they'll mean
Some to throw, some to make a diamond ring
You know I didn't want to have to haunt you
But what a ghostly scene
You wear the same jewels that I gave you
As you bury me
I didn't have it in myself to go with grace
'Cause when I'd fight, you used to tell me I was brave
And if I'm dead to you, why are you at the wake?
Cursing my name, wishing I stayed
Look at how my tears ricochet
And I can go anywhere I want
Anywhere I want, just not home
And you can aim for my heart, go for blood
But you would still miss me in your bones
And I still talk to you (when I'm screaming at the sky)
And when you can't sleep at night (you hear my stolen lullabies)
I didn't have it in myself to go with grace
And so the battleships will sink beneath the waves
You had to kill me, but it killed you just the same
Cursing my name, wishing I stayed
You turned into your worst fears
And you're tossing out blame, drunk on this pain
Crossing out the good years
And you're cursing my name, wishing I stayed
Look at how my tears ricochet


"REDEEMED"

Every tree has got a root And every girl forbidden fruit and got her demons And the path I chose to go, a different girl so long ago I had my reasons And shes in my head so loud, screaming "Shouldn't you be proud of what you came from? Oh, youve been crippled and youve walked on Youve been shut up and you talked, so lets talk some more" Where is the hand for me to reach? Where is the moral Ill ever teach myself? In all the black, in all the grief, I am redeemed And its ripping at my heart Because Im dodging all the darts and on a slow train And then Ill wear it til it tatters And it shatters on the floor in instant replay Oh, were all rotten and were pure And were just looking for the cure that feels like spring snow And all we have is who we are And where weve been got us this far, so let me go Where is the hand for me to reach? Where is the moral Ill never teach myself? In all the black, in all the grief, I am redeemed Where is the hand for me to reach? Where is the moral Ill never teach myself? In all the black, in all the grief through all the pain, and unbelief These are the words, that they all scream, I am redeemed


"BURNT NORTON"

 Time present and time past
Are both perhaps present in time future,
And time future contained in time past.
If all time is eternally present
All time is unredeemable.
What might have been is an abstraction
Remaining a perpetual possibility
Only in a world of speculation.
What might have been and what has been
Point to one end, which is always present.
Footfalls echo in the memory
Down the passage which we did not take
Towards the door we never opened
Into the rose-garden. My words echo
Thus, in your mind.
                              But to what purpose
Disturbing the dust on a bowl of rose-leaves
I do not know.
                        Other echoes
Inhabit the garden. Shall we follow?
Quick, said the bird, find them, find them,
Round the corner. Through the first gate,
Into our first world, shall we follow
The deception of the thrush? Into our first world.
There they were, dignified, invisible,
Moving without pressure, over the dead leaves,
In the autumn heat, through the vibrant air,
And the bird called, in response to
The unheard music hidden in the shrubbery,
And the unseen eyebeam crossed, for the roses
Had the look of flowers that are looked at.
There they were as our guests, accepted and accepting.
So we moved, and they, in a formal pattern,
Along the empty alley, into the box circle,
To look down into the drained pool.
Dry the pool, dry concrete, brown edged,
And the pool was filled with water out of sunlight,
And the lotos rose, quietly, quietly,
The surface glittered out of heart of light,
And they were behind us, reflected in the pool.
Then a cloud passed, and the pool was empty.
Go, said the bird, for the leaves were full of children,
Hidden excitedly, containing laughter.
Go, go, go, said the bird: human kind
Cannot bear very much reality.
Time past and time future
What might have been and what has been
Point to one end, which is always present.

Garlic and sapphires in the mud
Clot the bedded axle-tree.
The trilling wire in the blood
Sings below inveterate scars
Appeasing long forgotten wars.
The dance along the artery
The circulation of the lymph
Are figured in the drift of stars
Ascend to summer in the tree
We move above the moving tree
In light upon the figured leaf
And hear upon the sodden floor
Below, the boarhound and the boar
Pursue their pattern as before
But reconciled among the stars.

At the still point of the turning world. Neither flesh nor fleshless;
Neither from nor towards; at the still point, there the dance is,
But neither arrest nor movement. And do not call it fixity,
Where past and future are gathered. Neither movement from nor towards,
Neither ascent nor decline. Except for the point, the still point,
There would be no dance, and there is only the dance.
I can only say, there we have been: but I cannot say where.
And I cannot say, how long, for that is to place it in time.
The inner freedom from the practical desire,
The release from action and suffering, release from the inner
And the outer compulsion, yet surrounded
By a grace of sense, a white light still and moving,
Erhebung without motion, concentration
Without elimination, both a new world
And the old made explicit, understood
In the completion of its partial ecstasy,
The resolution of its partial horror.
Yet the enchainment of past and future
Woven in the weakness of the changing body,
Protects mankind from heaven and damnation
Which flesh cannot endure.
                                          Time past and time future
Allow but a little consciousness.
To be conscious is not to be in time
But only in time can the moment in the rose-garden,
The moment in the arbour where the rain beat,
The moment in the draughty church at smokefall
Be remembered; involved with past and future.
Only through time time is conquered.

Here is a place of disaffection
Time before and time after
In a dim light: neither daylight
Investing form with lucid stillness
Turning shadow into transient beauty
With slow rotation suggesting permanence
Nor darkness to purify the soul
Emptying the sensual with deprivation
Cleansing affection from the temporal.
Neither plenitude nor vacancy. Only a flicker
Over the strained time-ridden faces
Distracted from distraction by distraction
Filled with fancies and empty of meaning
Tumid apathy with no concentration
Men and bits of paper, whirled by the cold wind
That blows before and after time,
Wind in and out of unwholesome lungs
Time before and time after.
Eructation of unhealthy souls
Into the faded air, the torpid
Driven on the wind that sweeps the gloomy hills of London,
Hampstead and Clerkenwell, Campden and Putney,
Highgate, Primrose and Ludgate. Not here
Not here the darkness, in this twittering world.

    Descend lower, descend only
Into the world of perpetual solitude,
World not world, but that which is not world,
Internal darkness, deprivation
And destitution of all property,
Desiccation of the world of sense,
Evacuation of the world of fancy,
Inoperancy of the world of spirit;
This is the one way, and the other
Is the same, not in movement
But abstention from movement; while the world moves
In appetency, on its metalled ways
Of time past and time future.

Time and the bell have buried the day,
The black cloud carries the sun away.
Will the sunflower turn to us, will the clematis
Stray down, bend to us; tendril and spray
Clutch and cling?

    Chill
Fingers of yew be curled
Down on us? After the kingfisher's wing
Has answered light to light, and is silent, the light is still
At the still point of the turning world.

Words move, music moves
Only in time; but that which is only living
Can only die. Words, after speech, reach
Into the silence. Only by the form, the pattern,
Can words or music reach
The stillness, as a Chinese jar still
Moves perpetually in its stillness.
Not the stillness of the violin, while the note lasts,
Not that only, but the co-existence,
Or say that the end precedes the beginning,
And the end and the beginning were always there
Before the beginning and after the end.
And all is always now. Words strain,
Crack and sometimes break, under the burden,
Under the tension, slip, slide, perish,
Decay with imprecision, will not stay in place,
Will not stay still. Shrieking voices
Scolding, mocking, or merely chattering,
Always assail them. The Word in the desert
Is most attacked by voices of temptation,
The crying shadow in the funeral dance,
The loud lament of the disconsolate chimera.

    The detail of the pattern is movement,
As in the figure of the ten stairs.
Desire itself is movement
Not in itself desirable;
Love is itself unmoving,
Only the cause and end of movement,
Timeless, and undesiring
Except in the aspect of time
Caught in the form of limitation
Between un-being and being.
Sudden in a shaft of sunlight
Even while the dust moves
There rises the hidden laughter
Of children in the foliage
Quick now, here, now, always—
Ridiculous the waste sad time
Stretching before and after.


"HEAD OF A WOMAN WITH THE HORNS OF A RAM"

I used to curse the sidewalk ice
when I walked downhill after midnight,
my voice a bachelor in the quiet
wedded to itself, with a dog

warming its feet. A dog who never hunted,
never bit into deer or fox
felled. After Actaeon was changed
into a buck and his own dogs ran him down—
he knew them each by name, dozens

of them, names like Daisy, and Slayer, too—
Ovid says he made a sound no man
would make, and no stag either.
Today I went to my campus office

for the first time in such a long time, I even saw
a few students, and we laughed, almost
enchanted by each other’s bodies: human,
fully ourselves, outside a screen.
I have two copies of The Metamorphoses there,
 
and one has spent the pandemic by the window.
Same edition, same cover—Head of a Woman
with the Horns of a Ram—but that one
has been lying out, changing in the sun,

bleached purple like a bruise almost healed.
Both girls have their cheeks to their shoulders,
as if to soothe some itch, but they can’t tell
where just yet. Both girls are in trouble,
but one has been lonelier.


"WOLVES"

Through wolf-sized shadows of the moon, I worry about the last wooled world where my heart is an open window and I’ve called in the gentle fever of thieves; they are all so generous. I don’t have to be anywhere these days. Moonlight, my old mother, in a streak of chalk comes through pines, to teach me still how to tally mortality. I run a brush through my graying hair as if tilling the moon. One, unblessed rest and another dance through the bluedark. Don’t pull just this over your eyes. The cry of a serpent who knows no alphabet, but in its mute claim is its championed syllables. A forked-road of tongue is an unwinded line hymning and on hymning into river. A muscle, with such ankles and wading, envisioning itself to be round. In the middle of a broken stone, is another world, breathing inside this one. Three moves away from a midnight sun, where I remember the word for a second paradise. I wake up from a dream where I only know the word Ma. Where I call her and reach every ancestor from reams of ice and light that gladesin every true line and above beds of kelp. Where you come to the lost road, where you take off your sheepskin coat. Where I arrive now like a predator. 


"YOUNGER AND DUMBER"

When I was younger
Younger and dumber
Built like a flower
You came to pick me from out of the city
You turned me sour

When I was younger
Younger and prouder
I was nobody
You came to hurt me in all the right places
Made me somebody

Which way will I run when I want something new?
I don't feel at home in this house anymore
Which way will I run when I'm over you?
I don't feel at home in this town

Sometimes I just don't wanna be alone
And it's not cause I'm lonely
It's just 'cause I get so tired of filling the space all around me
And the love I feel is so powerful it can take you anywhere
And the love I feel is so very real that it'll drag you down

Which way will I run when I want something new?
I don't feel at home in this house anymore
Which way will I run when I'm over you?
I don't feel at home in this town

When I was younger
Younger and dumber
I didn't know better 


"SO DAMNED SIMPLE"

You're angry but you don't know how to be that yet It seems too much went wrong and all at once Resistance seems impossible from down this low And surely no one else can feel like this But on the streets You can see them gathering And in your heart You know they feel like you do Sound and pulse and volume Hands just reaching out for hands This is almost overload I said almost overload Friends and foes and princes Are all just human in the end This is so damn simple yeah It's so damn simple So standing in the steady throng of restless hope You don't feel like an outcast anymore And something deep inside of you has wakened up And you know that nothing's gonna be the same again And on these streets You can see for what seems miles Because in your heart You know they feel like you do Sound and pulse and volume Hands just reaching out for hands This is almost overload I said almost overload Friends and foes and princes They're all just human in the end This is so damn simple yeah It's so damn simple Your mind won't be still It may not again You don't think it will But it will, it will Sound and pulse and volume Hands just reaching out for hands This is so damn simple yeah It's so damn simple


"SEVEN WAYS TO UNPACK YOUR LIFE"

i.
slice the onion so thinly
into the iris of your eye;
watch yourself cry

ii.
pay someone to listen
to every single detail until 
the words can be digested

iii.

start to unpack and at the
slight twinge, throw
everything back in

iv.
heal – the path to healing
is not a straight line, 
rather a frantic traffic circle

v.
compartmentalize every
last inadequacy; lick
your lips wet with them

vi. 
stay stagnant; don’t bother
pulling out the weeds: 
you can’t grow out of them

vii.
survival is the key
but maybe I’m sick
of barely surviving


"CONFESSION ONE"

I confess, I want to lick the sidewalk. I crave that coarse, blue rock salt they sprinkle before each snowstorm. I imagine it’ll dye my tongue electric blue, like those lurid snow cones did every year at the end of the school party. I want to roll a rock around in my mouth, slowly. Then I’ll put it between my molars and crunch. I have a plan. I’ll put on my running shoes to make it look like I’m going somewhere and want to get there fast. With my puffy coat over my oversized, sweat-stained pajama shirt ragged from too many machine washes, I’ll head out of my apartment, waving over my shoulder to the concierge on duty as he wishes me a hurried goodnight. I will breathe in the filtered night air and begin to walk, looking for the perfect place to kneel down, release my tongue, and lick. It’s disgusting, but I want it. 


"THE MOON IS NO GOOD"

I look my best when I say what I mean
Don't push me out of mind
I do my best on Saturdays
Leave the rest of the week behind

I'm out of control and I blame it on the moon
I'm off the hook this time
I'm good to drive with a tainted mind
Let me drop you off in paradise
I'm good to drive you anywhere you need to be
You're gone even when you don't leave

I'm out of control and I blame it on the moon
I'm off the hook this time
I'm out of control, wouldn't blame it on you
I just wouldn't feel right


"THE WORLD WILL BLOW"

An aggressive vine eats its way across the South. It devours parking lots, clawing through Florida all the way to the Lake Fairy Inn’s foundations. Tendrils weave along the motel’s rusted railings, its rotted jambs. Creepers crawl through cracks, coming inside, taking over Ben’s brain. / In these conditions, he gets angry, his plans can’t flourish: whistleblowers blow their whistles, ex-girlfriends call 24-hour tip-lines, blood spills are tough to clean. Yeah, bleach only works sometimes. And DNA doesn’t lie. Inside the inn’s mini-fridge, a human head props on a paper plate. The cricket hum’s silent where the body’s disappeared behind the motel. / If only someone, anyone, would hack away that vine, he wouldn’t play with all those circuits and shrapnel, wouldn’t need to build a soul from parts. / Today, the bank’s a trap. Tick tick tick, Ben’s mechanical heartbeat thumps in a safe deposit box, jiggling double-locks. Down in the basement vault, a bomb squad palms loose cash into their Kevlar, then sweats it out as they attempt to disarm the complicated device. Needle-nose pliers. Tweezers. Angled dikes. Red wire. Black wire. Boom.


"CREDO"

Remember above all things, Kid, that to write is not
difficult, not painful, that it comes out of you
with ease, that you can whip up a little tale in no
time, that when you are sincere about it, that when
you want to impress a truth, it is not difficult,
not painful, but easy, graceful, full of smooth
power, as if you were a writing machine with a store
of literature that is boundless, enormous, endless,
and rich. For it is true; this is so. Do not forget
it in your gloomier moments. Make your stuff warm,
drive it home American-wise, don’t mind critics, don’t
mind the stuffy academic theses of scholars, they
don’t know what they’re talking about, they’re way
off the track, they’re cold; you’re warm, you’re
redhot, you can write all day, you know what you
know, like Halper; you remember that, Kid, and when
you feel as if you cannot write, as if it is no
use, as if life is no good, read this over and
realize that you can do a lot of good in this
world by turning out truths like these, by spreading
warmth, by trying to preach living for life’s sake,
not the intellectual way, but the warm way, the way
of love, the way which says: Brothers, I greet you
with open arms, I accept your frailties, I offer you
my frailties, let us gather and run the gamut of
rich human existence. Remember, Kid, the ease, the
grace, the glory, the greatness of your art; remember
it, never forget. Remember passion. Do not forget,
do not forsake, do not neglect. It is there, the
order and the purpose; there is chaos, but not in
you, not way down deep in your heart, no chaos,
only ease, grace, beauty, love, greatness . . . . . Kid,
you can whip a little tale, a little truth, you can
mop up the floor with a little tale in no time; it is
a cinch, you are the flow of smooth thrumming power,
you are a writer, and you can turn out some mean
stuff, and you will turn out tons of it, because it
is you, and do not forget it, Kid, do not forget it;
please, please Kid, do not forget yourself; save
that, save that, preserve yourself; turn out those
mean little old tales by the dozens, it is easy,
it is grace, do it American-wise, drive it home,
sell truth, for it needs to be sold. Remember, Kid,
what I say to you tonight; never forget it, read
this over in your gloomier moments and never, never
forget . . . . . never, never, never forget . . . . . please,
please, Kid please . . .


"THE SCIENTIST"

Come up to meet you, tell you I'm sorry
You don't know how lovely you are
I had to find you, tell you I need you
Tell you I set you apart
Tell me your secrets and ask me your questions
Oh, let's go back to the start
Running in circles, coming up tails
Heads on a science apart
Nobody said it was easy
It's such a shame for us to part
Nobody said it was easy
No one ever said it would be this hard
Oh, take me back to the start
I was just guessing at numbers and figures
Pulling the puzzles apart
Questions of science, science and progress
Do not speak as loud as my heart
But tell me you love me, come back and haunt me
Oh and I rush to the start
Running in circles, chasing our tails
Coming back as we are
Nobody said it was easy
Oh, it's such a shame for us to part
Nobody said it was easy
No one ever said it would be so hard
I'm going back to the start


"IGNORANCE"

Ignorance is king. Many would not profit by his abdication. Many enrich themselves by means of his dark monarchy. They are his Court, and in his name they defraud and govern, enrich themselves and perpetuate their power. Even literacy they fear, for the written word is another channel of communication that might cause their enemies to become united. Their weapons are keen-honed, and they use them with skill. They will press the battle upon the world when their interests are threatened, and the violence which follows will last until the structure of society as it now exists is leveled to rubble, and a new society emerges. I am sorry. But that is how I see it.


"ALL OF THIS WILL END"

Inside my cage I watch the clouds
Getting angry, turning dark and raining down
I let my fingers run
I want to turn my brain off, want to turn my shame to dust
Nobody hears me now
I'm talking to myself, I'm talking to god or something
I don't want anything to do with magic

And back then I had it
Forgiving and sacred

You ask me what I think about this
Is there's even a reason for it?
I don't have answers, no one does
I've been finding comfort in that
There's only love
There's only moving through and trying your best
Sometimes it's not enough
Who gives a fuck? All of this will end

Don't forget
All of this will end

I'm out of body
I am idle in the kitchen biting on my fingernails
Keeping from calling
Feeling scared of everyone I thought I knew
I'm only loving
Only moving through and trying my best
Sometimes it's not enough
But I'm still real, and I forgive 


"WOODEN HEART"

We're all born to broken people on their most honest day of living and since that first breath… We'll need grace that we've never given I've been haunted by standard red devils and white ghosts and it's not only when these eyes are closed these lies are ropes that I tie down in my stomach, but they hold this ship together tossed like leaves in this weather and my dreams are sails that I point towards my true north, stretched thin over my rib bones, and pray that it gets better but it won't won't, at least I don't believe it will… so I've built a wooden heart inside this iron ship, to sail these blood red seas and find your coasts. don't let these waves wash away your hopes this war-ship is sinking, and I still believe in anchors pulling fist fulls of rotten wood from my heart, I still believe in saviors but I know that we are all made out of shipwrecks, every single board washed and bound like crooked teeth on these rocky shores so come on and let's wash each other with tears of joy and tears of grief and fold our lives like crashing waves and run up on this beach come on and sew us together, tattered rags stained forever we only have what we remember


"BOOKENDS"

Time it was
And what a time it was, it was
A time of innocence
A time of confidences

Long ago it must be
I have a photograph
Preserve your memories
They're all that's left you 


"BELLE AND SEBASTIAN PARTY"

Lisa's kissing men like a long walk home When the music stops Take a tip from me, don't go through the park When you're on your own, it's a long walk home If they follow you Don't look back Like Dylan in the movies On your own If they follow you It's not your money that they're after boy it's you Pure easy listening, settle down On the pillow soft when they've all gone home You can concentrate on the ones you love You can concentrate, hey, now they've gone If they follow you Don't look back Like Dylan in the movies On your own If they follow you It's not your money that they're after boy it's you Yeah you're worth the trouble and you're worth the pain And you're worth the worry, I would do the same If we all went back to another time I will love you over I will love you Get me away from here I'm dying Play me a song to set me free Nobody writes them like they used to So it may as well be me Here on my own now after hours Here on my own now on a bus Think of it this way You could either be successful or be us With our winning smiles, and us With our catchy tunes and words Now we're photogenic You know, we don't stand a chance Oh, I'll settle down with some old story About a boy who's just like me Thought there was love in everything and everyone You're so naive! They always reach a sorry ending They always get it in the end Still it was worth it as I turned the pages solemnly, And then With a winning smile, the boy With naivety succeeds At the final moment, I cried I always cry at endings I always cry at endings Oh, that wasn't what I meant to say at all From where I'm sitting, rain Falling against the lonely tenement Has set my mind to wander Into the windows of my lovers They never know unless I write "This is no declaration, I just thought I'd let you know goodbye."


"STATE HOSPITAL"

The half back-flip conception, a state hospital birth
The most threadbare tall story the country's ever heard
Brought home to breathe smoke in arms of her mother with a blunt kitchen knife
Who just lays in a submissive position
beneath the national weight and the slow arc of a fist

Her heart beats like a breeze block thrown down the stairs
Her blood is thicker than concrete forced to be brave she was, born into a grave

And in the limp three years of board schooling
she's accustomed to hearing that she could never run far
A slipped disc in the spine of community,
a bloody curse word made pedestrian verse
Spirits in graveyards and fingers in car parks
She cries in the high street just to be heard
A screaming anchor for nothing in particular
at the foot of the fuck of it, and dragging her heels in the dirt

Her heart beats like a breeze block thrown down the stairs
Her blood is thicker than concrete forced to be brave she was, born into a grave

The cheek of youth flushed red and turned gray
Now she lies on the pavement, she's helped to her feet,
all thighs, hair, and magpie handbags
Saturday's uniform for the fuck me parade
Brought home to keep warm in the arms of a plumber ruddy and balding
Who just needs a spine to dig into, a chest for the head, and a hand for the holding

Her heart beats like a breeze block thrown down the stairs
Her blood is thicker than concrete forced to be brave she was, she was

Her heart beats like a breeze block thrown down the stairs
Her skin is thicker than concrete forced to be brave she was, she was
A broken elevator anthem held between floors
But if blood is thicker than concrete, all of it is not lost


"CURVE OF THE EARTH"

I tried to come down from you I tried with your voice in my head Knocking me back Every inch I moved I'm a sucker for a good lie The way you say you understand And how you always talk of catching me But never open up your hands Tell me does the world revolve the same? Tell me do the people all take care of you Did you doubt the curve of the earth? And every word, every word. I bet you would I know you're here to catch your breath But I'm not listening for the right words anymore I'll take what's left You're vicious like the blue sky Right before the rain comes pouring through Tell me does he look like me at all? Cause they're all an awful lot like you Tell me does the world revolve the same? Tell me do the people all take care of you Did you doubt the curve of the earth? And every word, every word Tell me does the world look all insane And do the people all just scare you And did you doubt the curve of the earth And ever word, every word. I bet you would.


"LYRIC IN THE SPRAWL OF WOUND"

The Christians are playing
their anvils again
outside the Planned Parenthood

& like the clanging things
I too am black &
have been wrought

& so I grab a mallet
to beat myself & feel
what it’s like to be heard

& the mallet can’t believe
what it’s been asked to do
& the sound I make

is out of tune & untamed,
is reverb & flame
the way riot is flame,

the way bloom & bud
& blood are flame &
when they stop their play

to watch me like I am the sun
and might do anything to anyone,
I realize this is the only way to live.

To put your voice to song
and wrap the song in fire.
That is what is required.


"PAINTING BIRDS"

Sometimes, when we caught the birds, we’d dip their tails in our fingerpaint, their tiny wings struggling against our clumsy hands, their miniature beaks gasping for breath or a worm, we were never sure which one. Sometimes, we’d sneak up trees toward their nests, shove their fragile shells in our pockets and scale back down, our feet barely hitting the trunk, our hands sticky with sap, our never-brushed hair full of pine needles, and we’d place the eggs in a shoebox underneath our bedside lamp, cushion it on some grass and sticks and we’d die at any sort of movement. Die. 


"DEATH DREAM"

It was dawn and the kitchen light was still on
I stepped in and found a suicide asleep on the floor
An open mouth, screams and makes no sound
Apart from the ring of the tinnitus of silence
You had your ear to the ground

White noise
I don't know if there's breathing or not
Butterflied arms, tell me that this one has flown
Blood seems black against the skin on your porcelain back
A still life is the last I will see of you, my painting of a panic attack

You died in my sleep last night...
You died in your sleep last night...

Death dreams I don't forget
It's been a while since I dreamed this
Even now when I sleep I tread with care


"FLAWS"

The closer men came to perfecting for themselves a paradise, the more impatient they became with it, and with themselves as well. They made a garden of pleasure, and became progressively more miserable with it as it grew in richness and power and beauty; for then, perhaps, it was easier to see something was missing in the garden, some tree or shrub that would not grow. When the world was in darkness and wretchedness, it could believe in perfection and yearn for it. But when the world became bright with reason and riches, it began to sense the narrowness of the needle's eye, and that rankled for a world no longer willing to believe or yearn.


"THE RUNNING OF SEVERAL SIMULATIONS AT ONCE MAY LEAD TO MURKY DATA"

How do you say ‘inopportune’
in a small forest of cell phone towers
disguised as bizarrely regular trees?
I am asking in case it happens,
because anything can and even does.
Sometimes I want to shrink
and move into a miniature model village
mostly because the particular green
of the imaginary grass corresponds
with how my body believes joy would feel
if joy were to happen here on Earth,
where my eyes receive light in this
certain way: limited, but not
without pleasure. As a child
I visited one model village
so extensively constructed I fell
into a state of complete wonder—
‘They thought of everything!’
even the person running late
for the train, and the window
left slightly open to the storm—
and I should like to request
the arrival of this sensation in response
to the world at its actual scale—
just imagine! Someone
has even gone to the trouble
of filling the egg cartons
individually with smooth brown
eggs and one—such detail!—
has broken, but not enough
to be noticed before the carton
has been paid for and brought home.
Sometimes artificially I will
induce this feeling in myself
by going silent at a large
restaurant gathering, pretending
—until it is real—that each person
is speaking from a highly naturalistic script,
having carefully rehearsed each
tiny gesture, the mid-sentence reach
for the salt, and I fall immediately
in love with my companions,
in awe of their remarkable talent
for portraying with such detailed conviction
the humans I know as my friends.


"CANTICLES"

The gaunt ghostfires loom as subtle shrouds,
Smokes and shades on the biers of Red Mountain.

Arches and spires line the rock halls,
Dimly lit by the spirits of the dead.

The blood of broken hearths and houses
Runs in red rivers, blossoms in fountains.

Girdled round within walls of wit's glass
The shattered hosts slumber in cradles of ash.

But when shall they wake?
What dark crucible may kindle their souls to light?

How long beneath red-reeking clouds
Must flickering watchfires burn?

How many lifetimes of labor and lament
Will it take to seal this restless tomb?


"THE STARS ARE PROJECTORS"

In the last second of life
They're gonna show you how
How they run this show
Sure, run it into the ground
In the last second of your life
They're gonna show you how
How they run this show
They run it into the ground
In the last second of life
They're gonna show you how
They run this show
Sure, run it into the ground
In the last second of life
They're gonna show you how
And the stars are projectors, yeah
Projectin' our lives down to this planet Earth
And the stars are projectors, yeah
Projectin' our minds down to this planet Earth
Everyone wants a double feature
They wanna be their own damn teacher
And how all the stars are projectors, yeah
Projectin' our lives down to this planet Earth
It's all about moderate climates
You gotta be cold and be hot, for sure
And it's all about the moderate climates
You wanna be blessed and be cursed, for sure
And the stars are projectors, yeah
Projectin' our lives down to this planet Earth
And the stars are projectors, yeah
Projectin' our lives down to this planet Earth
Everyone wants a double feature
They wanna be their own damn teacher
And how all the stars are projectors, yeah
Projectin' our minds down to this planet Earth
You've got the harder part
You've got the kinder heart, and it's true
I've got the easy part
I've got the harder heart, ain't that true?
Well, right wing, left wing, chicken wing
It's built on findin' the easier ways through
God is a woman and the woman is
An animal, that animal's man, and that's you
Was there a need for creation?
That was hidden in a math equation, and that's this
Where do circles begin?
Where do circles begin?


"IF YOU GO INTO THE WOODS YOU WILL FIND IT HAS A TECHNOLOGY"

This tree has a small LED display 
It is glowing and it can show you words 
and it can show you pictures and it can melt 
from one choice to another and you are looking at it 
and it wants you to share the message 
but it can't see that you are the only one around 
and that everyone else is hibernating 
which you love You are so happy and alone 
with the red and yellow lights It's a nice day 
to be in nature and to read up on the very bland ideas 
this tree has about how to live This tree says 
grow stronger and this tree says fireworks effect 
This tree is the saddest prophet in history 
but you don't tell it that You are trying to show it respect 
which gets tiresome but then it flashes 
a snake at you It's a kind of LED tree hybrid joke 
and you could just kiss it for trying For failing
But it can't see you and it starts to cry


"HALF OMEN HALF HOPE"

When everything finally has been wrecked and further shipwrecked,
When their most ardent dream has been made hollow and unrecognizable,
They will feel inside their limbs the missing shade of blue that lingers
Against hills in the cooler hours before dark, and the moss at the foot of the forest
When green starts to leave it. What they take into their privacy (half of his embrace,
Her violence at play) are shadows of acts which have no farewells in them.
Moons unearth them. And when, in their separate dwellings, their bodies
Feel the next season come, they no longer have anyone to whom
To tell it. Clouds of reverie pass outside the window and a strange emptiness
Peers back in. If they love, it is solely to be adored, it is to scatter and gather
Themselves like hard seeds in a field made fallow by a fire someone years ago set.
In the quiet woods, from the highest trees, there is always something
Weightless falling; and he, who must realize that certain losses are irreparable,
Tells himself at night, before the darkest mirror, that vision keeps him whole.

On the verge of warm and simple sleep they tell themselves certain loves
Are like sheets of dark water, or ice forests, or husks of ships. To stop a thing
Such as this would be to halve a sound that travels out from a silent person’s
Thoughts. The imprint they make on each other’s bodies is worth any pain
They may have caused. Quiet falls around them. And when she reaches
For him the air greens like underwater light and the well-waters drop.
They will see again the shadows of insects.
They will touch the bark and feel each age of the tree fly undisturbed
Into them. If what is no longer present in them cannot be restored,
It can at least be offered. Through long bewildered dusks, stalks grow;
Rains fill and pass out of clouds; animals hover at the edges of fields
With eyes like black pools. For nothing cannot be transformed;
Pleasure and failure feed each other daily. Do not think any breeze,
Any grain of light, shall be withheld. All the stars will sail out for them.


"WHEN THE WORLD ENDS"

Oh, when the world ends
Collect your things, you're coming with me
When the world ends
You tuckle up yourself with me
Watch it as the stars disappear to nothing
The day the world is over, oh
We'll be lying in bed

I'm gon' rock you like a baby when the cities fall
We will rise as the buildings crumble
Float down and watch it all, midst the burning we'll be churning
You know love will be our wings
The passion rises up from the ashes
When the world ends

When the world ends
You're gonna come with me
We're gonna be crazy like a river bends
We're gonna float through the criss-cross of the mountains
Watch them fade to nothing
When the world ends, you know
That's what's happening now
I'm gon' be there with you somehow, oh

I'm gonna tie you up like a baby in the carriage car
Your legs don't work 'cause you want me so
You just lie spread to the wall
The love you got is surely all the love I would ever need
I'm gonna take you by my side and love you tall 'til the world ends

Oh
But don't you worry about a thing, no
'Cause I got you here with me
Mm, don't you worry about a
Just you and me floating through the empty empty
Just you and me
Oh, graces
Oh, grace

Ah, when the world ends
We'll be burning one, ah
When the world ends
We'll be sweet making love
Oh, you know when the world ends
I'm gonna take you aside and say
Let's watch it fade away, fade away
And the world's done
Ours just begun
It's done, ours just begun

We're gonna dive into the emptiness, we'll be swimming
I'm gonna walk you through the pathless roads
I'm gonna take you to the top of the mountain that's no longer there
I'm gonna take you to bed and love you I swear like the end is here


"SPINOZA LIKED TO DRAW"

The more you struggle to live, the less you live. Give up the notion that you must be sure of what you are doing. Instead, surrender to what is real within you, for that alone is sure. You are above everything distressing. If you want the present to be different from the past, study the past. There is no hope unmingled with fear, and no fear unmingled with hope. Men are mistaken in thinking themselves free; their opinion is made up of consciousness of their own actions, and ignorance of the causes by which they are determined. The mind of God is all the mentality that is scattered over space and time, the diffused consciousness that animates the world.


"IN LIEU OF WILDFIRES"

There is so little to call ours except caution,
a little myth, the pan

of stuffed duck cooling on
the counter. I zip myself into bed. My grandmother

wakes up at 4 am to exercise. Call it an exercise
in faith, how she bets on dawn. Meanwhile

Mama colors her white hairs. Then she stands
before the topography of unwashed dishes

and breathes with her chest. The tomatoes
are ripe now. Go look–they’re growing out the garden,

in the pot with a peace sign
tattooed in the clay. The mothers I miss

shrug off their jackets, leave them folded
by my door. I cut off any loose threads,

heat them up with my palms, & cling.
When I look up, the sun is gone. Remember

to never leave visions unattended.
I mistake California in fall for

apocalypse. The clovers here have
too many leaves to count.


"ONE MAN WRECKING MACHINE"

I built a time machine I'm going to see the homecoming queen Take her to the Christmas dance Maybe now I'll get in her pants Whatever Back with my high school friends Meeting where the train tracks end Passing round a skinny joint Rolling up to Lookout Point I want to pull it apart and put it back together I want to relive all my adolescent dreams Inspired by true events on movie screens I am a one man wrecking machine Back in my parents' house Back to the shouting out loud One day you'll be a man One day you'll understand I want to pull it apart and put it back together I want to relive all my adolescent dreams Inspired by true events on movie screens I am a one man wrecking machine Inspired by true events on movie screens I am a one man wrecking machine Here in the present tense Nothing is making sense Waiting for my moment to come Everything has come undone I tried to pull it apart and put it back together No point in living in my adolescent dreams Inspired by true events on movie screens I am a one man wrecking machine


"AFTER DALI"

The face of the precipice is black with lovers;
The sun above them is a bag of nails; the spring's
First rivers hide among their hair.
Goliath plunges his hand into the poisoned well
And bows his head and feels my feet walk through his brain.
The children chasing butterflies turn round and see him there
With his hand in the well and my body growing from his head,
And are afraid. They drop their nets and walk into the wall like smoke.

The smooth plain with its mirrors listens to the cliff
Like a basilisk eating flowers.
And the children, lost in the shadows of the catacombs,
Call to the mirrors for help:
'Strong-bow of salt, cutlass of memory,
Write on my map the name of every river.'

A flock of banners fight their way through the telescoped forest
And fly away like birds towards the sound of roasting meat.
Sand falls into the boiling rivers through the telescopes' mouths
And forms clear drops of acid with petals of whirling flame.
Heraldic animals wade through the asphyxia of planets,
Butterflies burst from their skins and grow long tongues like plants,
The plants play games with a suit of mail like a cloud.

Mirrors write Goliath's name upon my forehead,
While the children are killed in the smoke of the catacombs
And lovers float down from the cliffs like rain.


"UNDERRATED"

I excel at throwing blankets—one toss and they land flat, perfectly centered on the bed. I know just which size Tupperware will fit the dinner leftovers. I can skim scum off boiling broth like a motherfucker. I can extract a full row of plates from the dishwasher in one motion—all those college work-study hours in the dish room. I can measure a fever to the first decimal place with my cheek but not my hands—all that hot crockery long ago. I can drift the wash-boarded turns of our dirt road in the pickup truck, a controlled skid, Dukes-of-Hazzard style minus the racism, a skill that has earned me admiration from my teenaged son—that’s worth something. I can coax a root-bound plant out of its pot and shove a pill—gently—down a dog’s throat. I can fold paper so the snowflake comes out with six sides. I also know how to catch porcupines. However, I cannot yodel or burp the ABCs. I don’t know how to read palms or tea leaves or entrails, although I can often read minds and, given enough time, the writing on the wall. I don’t expect there will ever be a desperate need for a heroic blanket thrower. My specialized skills may never save a life, but you never know. Humbly, I await my destiny. In the meanwhile, it gives me great satisfaction to see those who have been neither considered nor elevated given the honor and appreciation, if not the salary, that has always been their due: the grocery clerk, the janitor, the pizza delivery guy, the garbage collector. Let me feed you clear soup under a smooth blanket, surrounded by proper snowflakes, eminently free of porcupines.


"FROM NIGHT SKY"

White sky. Rain ices and lands as perfect quiet.
You have driven days to be here. You did not expect
such light in the ice—all through the town the hour
understands and goes its way. Above the treeline, ceaselessly,
mountains—halfway up the rock snow-steam gathers
and weaves. Town be still as the day finds an order.
Order understand the hour glass-white on the fields.
Cars, pass the people in houses and see what little
they live for. A breath on the window close to the face,
and beyond it, wind lifting snow.


"THE TRUTH IN FORGOTTEN SECRETS"

She swears she’ll teach me black magic or read my fortune one tea leaf at a time. Restless as stalks of wheat that bend and weave, summertime hair the color of burnt almonds, fingertips painted iron silver. I have no money for you. But she doesn’t trade in horse-flesh or torn Levi’s to be sold on the black market. One touch. Let me run my hand across your soul. The shivers from her fingertips find footholds, staircases around skeletal muscles. The salt buoys you. I am the salt. Elemental. Mercurial. I sink, gasp for breath. Teach me black magic. Her bottomless eyes croon with what I imagine she holds. You are the rabbit. You will run far and fleet of foot. My future, her hands. A cup of oolong and honey.


"THE STARRY NIGHT"

The town does not exist
except where one black-haired tree slips
up like a drowned woman into the hot sky.
The town is silent. The night boils with eleven stars.   
Oh starry starry night! This is how
I want to die.

It moves. They are all alive.
Even the moon bulges in its orange irons   
to push children, like a god, from its eye.
The old unseen serpent swallows up the stars.   
Oh starry starry night! This is how   
I want to die:

into that rushing beast of the night,   
sucked up by that great dragon, to split   
from my life with no flag,
no belly,
no cry.


"HOW A FLOWER OPENS"

When you and me’d get an itch and go down to the river and be alone and look at each other through dilated eyes, ache into each other with our sides, speak with smirks and head nods and flushed cheeks, tell stories with our scuffed knuckles, bruised sides, limp necks and lips and heads that dripped blood on the plywood floor of your mom’s ’93 VW Bug, tell stories dug out of us like spade from earth fast and expressive at first, slow and plodding half way through when we hit roots and reached the core of something like our father’s guns or your uncle’s shed or your brother’s hands, one breath at a time, sharing each other’s earth until all the air in the world was only enough for one of us slipping razors, shaving skin, changing grips working higher and higher kissing higher and higher slipping under the water slipping into each other as sisters brothers cousins the way you held me there until I went limp the look in your eyes when I said this time was the best time since the first time yes yes yes.


"PLANETARIUM"

A woman in the shape of a monster   
a monster in the shape of a woman   
the skies are full of them

a woman      ‘in the snow
among the Clocks and instruments   
or measuring the ground with poles’

in her 98 years to discover   
8 comets

she whom the moon ruled   
like us
levitating into the night sky   
riding the polished lenses

Galaxies of women, there
doing penance for impetuousness   
ribs chilled   
in those spaces    of the mind

An eye,

          ‘virile, precise and absolutely certain’
          from the mad webs of Uranusborg

                                                            encountering the NOVA   

every impulse of light exploding

from the core
as life flies out of us

             Tycho whispering at last
             ‘Let me not seem to have lived in vain’

What we see, we see   
and seeing is changing

the light that shrivels a mountain   
and leaves a man alive

Heartbeat of the pulsar
heart sweating through my body

The radio impulse   
pouring in from Taurus

         I am bombarded yet         I stand

I have been standing all my life in the   
direct path of a battery of signals
the most accurately transmitted most   
untranslatable language in the universe
I am a galactic cloud so deep      so invo-
luted that a light wave could take 15   
years to travel through me       And has   
taken      I am an instrument in the shape   
of a woman trying to translate pulsations   
into images    for the relief of the body   
and the reconstruction of the mind.


"MADMAN"

I woke up this morning and my head, it started roaming Now nothing's right, nothing's right Don't remember being born, don't know why we're being torn And now nothing's right, nothing's right I open up my mouth just to let the demon shout 'Bout my dirty little schemes, that the wettest of my dreams are you Nothing's right, nothing's right Over and over I'm feeling the same old loneliness And under me, under me feeding the madman I'm breaking off a piece of what's left of what was me But it feels all right, feels all right I'm laying on your road 'cause I thought that it might hold And it feels all right, feels all right Do I wanna take a bet, is this as good as it'll get? And I cannot get away from the comfortable, familiar chains Nothing's right, nothing's right Over and over I'm feeling the same old loneliness And under me, under me feeding the madman Over and over it's chilling, the things I've let you miss And if you're a miracle, I am the madman And I'm sorry I didn't build your walls and And I'm sorry I had to go and fall and And I'm sorry I had the whole thing wrong and Well I guess I'm the sorriest of all And I'm sorry that you are feeling small and And I'm sorry that I'm not used to crawling And I'm sorry the writing's on the wall and Well I guess I'm the sorriest I guess I'm the sorriest of all I woke up this morning and my head, it started roaming Now nothing's right, nothing's right Don't remember being born, don't know why we're being torn And now nothing's right, nothing's right You said you don't identify with my sort of petrified outlook On the pride that I've managed to ignore so long Nothing's right


"WAVES 1"

I want someone to sit beside 
after the day's pursuit and all its anguish, 
after its listening, and its waitings, 
and its suspicions. After quarrelling 
and reconciliation I need privacy - 
to be alone with you, to set this hubbub in order. 
For I am as neat as a cat in my habits.


"THE PROBABILITY OF LOVING AN UPPER LEVEL STATISTICS COURSE AND YOU"

Unit 1.  It was supposed to be easy, wasn’t it? Discrete random variables, each value, distinct. Defined. To find the expected value of a coin flip, I multiply single-digit numbers together. On the back of the exam there’s some blank space, so I multiply the expected value of being with you, which is the probability of confessing my crush x the value of a crush + the probability of time spent with you x the value of time spent with you. There’s more, but I forget that the first exam is timed. I mistake undefined for infinite.

Unit 2.  This unit is on confidence intervals and hypothesis tests, and t-tests and z-tests and p-values but all I can hypothesize about is you. The letters in your name, the curve of your earrings, the shade of your eyes, the estimate of the time before you laugh at my jokes, the distribution of hours a week a college student ought to spend on class and clubs and job and sleep and eating and loving (I search this up on Google). I learn that there is no 100% confidence interval because no one can ever be 100% certain, but, that evening on a walk outside, I slip my fingers in yours. I marvel at how even moonlight leaves our clasped hands whole as one shadow, or 100%, and I want to say, I am certain. I am certain.

Unit 3. For the final project, I create a model to predict outcomes. The model is terrible. The dataset is good. I am desperate now, tattooing every β0 and β1 on my body like ink could move on its own. Form some shape I can describe or explain, allow me to receive an A in this course, drip across the hollow cavities of my body and fill them with numbers. The model isn’t linear or quadratic, and no matter how I equate apologies as solutions, I do not know how to narrate what I see. I watch the rows of values I’d organized on my screen dissolve into clusters of loose specks, white dwarf stars quiet before their explosions. The process is slow, steady, and inevitable. I wait.

Unit 4. There is no explosion. My prediction does not come to pass. The formula of us also proves to be incorrect. I pass the course, regardless. I think of the first day of class, my professor declaring that statistics is a field of assumptions and inferences. I marvel at the probability that I could have been so absolutely wrong, and I declare a minor in statistics.


"PICTURES OF SUCCESS"

Build your own television receiver
Staying home can't be that bad for me
Because I'm not scared, but I'd like some extra spare time
Easily earn me big money
I'm a modern girl, but I fold in half so easily
When I put myself in the picture of success
I could learn world trade or try to map the ocean

When you're dead, in hospitals and freeways
When you're dead, in resting homes and clinics
When you're dead, it must be nice to finish
When you're dead

I've had it with you, and Mexico can fucking wait
And all of those French films about trains
Because I'm not scared, but I'd like some extra spare time
I'm not scared, but the bills keep changing colors

When you're dead, in hopsitals and freeways
When you're dead, in dress shirts and neck ties
When you're dead, in apartments and on beaches
When you're dead

They say California is a recipe for a black hole
And I say I've got my best shoes on, I'm ready to go
Ready to go, ready to go, I'm ready to go
Ready to go, ready to go, I'm ready to go

These are times that can't be weathered
And we have never been back there since then
These are times that can't be weathered
And we haven't been back there since then
These are times that can't be weathered
And we have never been back there since then
These are times that can't be weathered
And we haven't been back there since then


"WAX WINDOWS"

We carry stubs of crayons from our childhood into the barely-there space of adulthood, melt them down with lighters we steal from our boyfriends who own shit-heap cars we suck them off in. Sometimes, we sit around one of our coffee tables, the kind of platform you build with milk crates and plywood, the only piece of furniture that fits into our ghetto apartments alongside the cheap, cum-stained futons we inherit from our brothers who left for college or Costa Rica a few years ago. We hold the stubs over candles until they turn black and their colour bleeds onto the paper we’ve spread out below, making a sort of stained glass window we’ll hang in the light streaming in off our balcony, the light we’ll bask in hungover and hot-knifing when we have nothing better to do. Sometimes, we let the wax drip onto our hand like a glove, the curls and circles of our fingerprints rising to the surface despite our best efforts to hide our identities with baggy jeans, baggy t-shirts, baggy hair that hangs along the sides of our faces like lanes of a freeway, uncertain who we are and who we’re meant to be. Sometimes, we let the wax bleed into a pool on our palm and we roll it around a wick like a cigarette, stuff its end onto the plywood like a python, then we sit back and watch it burn right down to its very, last breath.


"HOPE IS THE THING WITH FEATHERS"

Hope is the thing with feathers
That perches in the soul,
And sings the tune without the words,
And never stops at all,

And sweetest in the gale is heard;
And sore must be the storm
That could abash the little bird
That kept so many warm.

I've heard it in the chillest land,
And on the strangest sea;
Yet, never, in extremity,
It asked a crumb of me. 


"WAVES 2"

There is, then, a world immune from change. But I am not composed enough, standing on tiptoe on the verge of fire, still scorched by the hot breath, afraid of the door opening and the leap of the tiger, to make even one sentence. What I say is perpetually contradicted. Each time the door opens I am interrupted. I am not yet twenty-one. I am to be broken. I am to be derided all my life. I am to be cast up and down among these men and women, with their twitching faces, with their lying tongues, like a cork on a rough sea. Like a ribbon of weed I am flung far every time the door opens. I am the foam that sweeps and fills the uttermost rims of the rocks with whiteness; I am also a girl, here in this room.


"BUDDHIST NEW YEAR SONG"

I saw you in green velvet, wide full sleeves
seated in front of a fireplace, our house
made somehow more gracious, and you said
“There are stars in your hair”— it was truth I
brought down with me

to this sullen and dingy place that we must make golden
make precious and mythical somehow, it is our nature,
and it is truth, that we came here, I told you,
from other planets
where we were lords, we were sent here,
for some purpose

the golden mask I had seen before, that fitted
so beautifully over your face, did not return
nor did that face of a bull you had acquired
amid northern peoples, nomads, the Gobi desert

I did not see those tents again, nor the wagons
infinitely slow on the infinitely windy plains,
so cold, every star in the sky was a different color
the sky itself a tangled tapestry, glowing
but almost, I could see the planet from which we had come

I could not remember (then) what our purpose was
but remembered the name Mahakala, in the dawn

in the dawn confronted Shiva, the cold light
revealed the “mindborn” worlds, as simply that,
I watched them propagated, flowing out,
or, more simply, one mirror reflecting another.
then broke the mirrors, you were no longer in sight
nor any purpose, stared at this new blackness
the mindborn worlds fled, and the mind turned off:

a madness, or a beginning?


"WAVES 3"

But for pain words are lacking. There should be cries, cracks, fissures, whiteness passing over chintz covers, interference with the sense of time, of space; the sense also of extreme fixity in passing objects; and sounds very remote and then very close; flesh being gashed and blood spurting, a joint suddenly twisted - beneath all of which appears something very important, yet remote, to be just held in solitude.


"BRANCHING LIFE"

I saw my life branching out before me like the green fig tree in the story. From the tip of every branch, like a fat purple fig, a wonderful future beckoned and winked. One fig was a husband and a happy home and children, and another fig was a famous poet and another fig was a brilliant professor, and another fig was Ee Gee, the amazing editor, and another fig was Europe and Africa and South America, and another fig was Constantin and Socrates and Attila and a pack of other lovers with queer names and offbeat professions, and another fig was an Olympic lady crew champion, and beyond and above these figs were many more figs I couldn't quite make out. I saw myself sitting in the crotch of this fig tree, starving to death, just because I couldn't make up my mind which of the figs I would choose. I wanted each and every one of them, but choosing one meant losing all the rest, and, as I sat there, unable to decide, the figs began to wrinkle and go black, and, one by one, they plopped to the ground at my feet.


"OLD MATH"

I feel a shunning in my sleeping hours—
the violence of no—
when he who shouldn’t does, 
before I knew what longing was. 

I grew into myself before I was ready,
my girl’s mouth forming a zero.
Oh the turning away, the echo in every no,
which shaped and became me—

not like a new dress to try on—no,
more like a second skin. Each day,
I subtracted a little more of my shadow.
What if we get caught?—as if 

discovery were viler than the act itself.
Shame is a junk drawer 
stuffed with marbles and plastic dinosaurs and foreign coins—
every dopamine curiosity I wanted. 

It is his mouth on mother's girdle
I pull tight around my tiny frame. 
My long division was just another way
of ending with zero, an old math,

learned by rote, the no I couldn’t swallow.


"UNABRIDGED"

And when at last you find someone to whom you feel you can pour out your soul, you stop in shock at the words you utter— they are so rusty, so ugly, so meaningless and feeble from being kept in the small cramped dark inside you so long. Yes, I was infatuated with you: I am still. No one has ever heightened such a keen capacity of physical sensation in me. I cut you out because I couldn't stand being a passing fancy. Before I give my body, I must give my thoughts, my mind, my dreams. And you weren't having any of those. I desire the things that will destroy me in the end. Let's face it: I'm scared, scared and frozen. First, I guess I'm afraid for myself... the old primitive urge for survival. It's getting so I live every moment with terrible intensity. It all flowed over me with a screaming ache of pain... remember, remember, this is now, and now, and now. Live it, feel it, cling to it. I want to become acutely aware of all I've taken for granted. When you feel that this may be good-bye, the last time, it hits you harder.


"ELM"

I am terrified by this dark thing
That sleeps in me;
All day I feel its soft, feathery turnings, its malignity.

Clouds pass and disperse.
Are those the faces of love, those pale irretrievables?
Is it for such I agitate my heart?

I am incapable of more knowledge.
What is this, this face
So murderous in its strangle of branches? -

Its snaky acids kiss.
It petrifies the will. These are the isolate, slow faults
That kill, that kill, that kill.


"MY HOLY BOOK"

The world changes too fast. You take your eyes off something that's always been there, and the next minute it's just a memory. We are all specialised forms of survivor. We lack what we fundamentally need and forge ahead regardless, hurriedly hiding our wounds, disguising our ineptitude, bluffing our way through our weaknesses. He thought about history, the hidden human anxieties behind momentous events. The tiny trivial things that were probably bothering Einstein or Darwin or Newton as they formulated their theories: arguments with the landlady, maybe, or concern over a blocked fireplace. The pilots who bombed Dresden, fretting over a phrase in a letter from back home: What did she mean by that? Or what about Columbus, when he was sailing toward the New Land … who knows what was on his mind? The last words spoken to him by an old friend, perhaps, a person not even remembered in history books. People and their dwellings were such a thin dust on the surface of the globe, like invisible specks of bacteria on an orange, and the feeble lights of kebab shops and supermarkets failed utterly to register on the infinities of space above. Locating a past event in measured time was something they could do with great effort, as a special favor, but Peter could tell they didn’t see the point. Why should it matter exactly how many days, weeks, months or years ago a relative had died? A person was either living amongst them or in the ground.


"BUTTERFLY"

Butterfly,
I like the way you wear your wings.
Show me their colors,
For the light is going.
Spread out their edges of gold,
Before the Sandman puts me to sleep
And evening murmurs by.


"IT IS NOT DEBATABLE"

Not in a thunderstorm, when squalls cover the light and mangle solid ground. Not in a crowd, where no one will hear the whole story. It is not debatable when there are his and hers microphones. It is not debatable after a decade, when details look cold, colorless. Not when you had too much to drink, or because the hinges in your hips allowed them to open and you still believe it’s what Jesus meant when he said, I will prepare a place for you. It is not debatable that you understand this in your head, not debatable that you don’t yet know in your heart – it was not your fault – the Goliath beast heaving down into you. That is not debatable, but it is unfamiliar – a jagged river stone. Hold it in your hand. Grip for life and let it cut you. Believe it’s what Jesus meant when he asked for faith like a mustard seed – the size of one leaf in a twister, of one phrase flung by your slingshot through the mob – It is not debatable – Here you are, breathing


"FOR EMILY, WHENEVER I MAY FIND HER"

What a dream I had
Pressed in organdy
Clothed in crinoline of smoky burgundy
Softer than the rain
I wandered empty streets
Down past the shop displays
I heard cathedral bells
Tripping down the alley ways
As I walked on

And when you ran to me
Your cheeks flushed with the night
We walked on frosted fields
Of juniper and lamplight
I held your hand

And when I awoke and felt you warm and near
I kissed your honey hair with my grateful tears


"A LONG STORY WITH A STRAIGHT LINE"

Painted in permanence across cave walls at the base of a cliff in deep Patagonia, hands, hands, thousands of hands ten thousand years old, one after another. The hands and the surrounding scene tell a long story that gets longer as archaeologists and anthropologists continue to translate. For example, we know how the handprints were made – hunter-gatherers filled bone pipes, found scattered in the dirt, with mineral paints, dusts of crimson, white, purple, and ochre, blew into the tool, and sprayed color at the back of their hands and the surrounding wall – when they lifted their hands, a hand remained stained onto the stone. We know ten thousand years because those bone-pipes, sculpted from the leg-bones of large rodents and small deer which wandered what were then wide beige grasslands, could be taken into laboratories, observed by machines that count radioactive isotopes of carbon and spit out dates. We know for certain that there are eight-hundred-and-twenty-seven left hands and thirty-one right hands, meaning most of the artists were right-handed, feeling more comfortable with the ingenious device in their dominant right hand. We know some of the hands are missing fingers, but we can only guess why – maybe from infection or amputation, or, as some of the more daring anthropologists have offered, these hands are performing a lost form of sign language and thus sending a message we, even with all our data-eating machines, will never translate. When I was a not much bigger than two hands and crying, my mother would pick me up and hold me in one of her thin arms, switching to the other arm when one got sore, and would twist slightly at her hips and shoulders over and over softly to create a gentle swaying motion, partly, maybe, because she was a young mother and nervous, feeling powerless at the sound of her only child wailing, partly, maybe, because she was tired, tired from working her late shifts before her early shifts before her late shifts, the type of tired that surpasses physical status into emotion, tiredness not bound in her arms and legs but inside her skull, behind her eyes and pushing out and partly because after a while, sometimes a very long while, this rocking motion seemed to help, and I would quiet into steady breath, my eyes not so much closing but floating shut in that slow wind only a tired mother can produce, and sleep again. Of course, I don’t remember any of this. My mother smirked as she recounted this little ritual fifteen years later and early in the desert morning, both of us cold as I stood before the front door to leave for school in a beanie and oversized backpack, when she saw that I was just sort of swaying, idle, swaying on my own, turning myself at my awkward hips and broadening shoulders, slowly, slowly. From layers of findings from layers of projections of past touches touching, perhaps the most remarkable finding is that some of the handprints highest on the cave walls belong to the smallest hands. As I said, this is a long story. It keeps getting longer. Here. Sit down with me. If you know it, sing. If you don’t, listen. Once you know it, please, sing.
 

"RABBIT HEART"

The looking glass, so shiny and new
How quickly the glamour fades
I start spinning, slipping out of time
Was that the wrong pill to take?
You made a deal, and now it seems you have to offer up
But will it ever be enough?
It's not enough
Here I am, a rabbit hearted girl
Frozen in the headlights
It seems I've made the final sacrifice
This is a gift, it comes with a price
Who is the lamb and who is the knife?
Midas is king and he holds me so tight
And turns me to gold in the sunlight
I look around, but I can't find you
If only I could see your face
Instead of rushing towards the skyline
I wish that I could just be brave
I must become a lion hearted girl
Ready for a fight
Before I make the final sacrifice
We raise it up, this offering
We raise it up


"EVENING"

Now it is dusky,
And the hermit thrush and the black and white warbler
Are singing and answering together.
There is sweetness in the tree,
And fireflies are counting the leaves.
I like this country,
I like the way it has,
But I cannot forget my dream I had of the sea,
The gulls swinging and calling,
And the foamy towers of the waves.


"POSTMODERNISM NUMBER ONE"

These catatonic bodies have fallen into the river like lead weights, immense transfixed hippopotamuses who will not come back up to the surface. They have entrusted all their forces to primal repression, in order to escape the system of social and psychic repression that fabricates neurotics. In point of fact, of the three preceding adventures, the adventure of psychosis is the most intimately related to the process: in the sense of Jaspers' demonstration, when he shows that the "demonic"—ordinarily repressed—erupts by means of such a state, or gives rise to such states, which endlessly run the risk of making it topple into breakdown and disintegration. We no longer know if it is the process that must truly be called madness, the sickness being only disguise or caricature, or if the sickness is our only madness and the process our only cure.


"THE WHEEL REVOLVES"

You were a girl of satin and gauze
Now you are my mountain and waterfall companion.   
Long ago I read those lines of Po Chu I   
Written in his middle age.
Young as I was they touched me.
I never thought in my own middle age   
I would have a beautiful young dancer
To wander with me by falling crystal waters,   
Among mountains of snow and granite,   
Least of all that unlike Po’s girl
She would be my very daughter.

The earth turns towards the sun.   
Summer comes to the mountains.   
Blue grouse drum in the red fir woods   
All the bright long days.
You put blue jay and flicker feathers   
In your hair.
Two and two violet green swallows   
Play over the lake.
The blue birds have come back
To nest on the little island.
The swallows sip water on the wing   
And play at love and dodge and swoop
Just like the swallows that swirl   
Under and over the Ponte Vecchio.   
Light rain crosses the lake
Hissing faintly. After the rain
There are giant puffballs with tortoise shell backs   
At the edge of the meadow.
Snows of a thousand winters
Melt in the sun of one summer.   
Wild cyclamen bloom by the stream.   
Trout veer in the transparent current.
In the evening marmots bark in the rocks.
The Scorpion curls over the glimmering ice field.
A white crowned night sparrow sings as the moon sets.   
Thunder growls far off.
Our campfire is a single light
Amongst a hundred peaks and waterfalls.
The manifold voices of falling water
Talk all night.
Wrapped in your down bag   
Starlight on your cheeks and eyelids
Your breath comes and goes
In a tiny cloud in the frosty night.
Ten thousand birds sing in the sunrise.
Ten thousand years revolve without change.
All this will never be again.


"THUNDER SHOWER"

The dark cloud raged.
Gone was the morning light.
The big drops darted down:
The storm stood tall on the rose-trees:
And the bees that were getting honey
Out of wet roses,
The hiding bees would not come out of the flowers
Into the rain.


"BOAT PARADOX"

In the storm, there are two boats. Each is alone. Each exists as the sole survivor of the storm. Each is tossed by the waves while deepness swells all around. In one boat, the Lantern Child huddles, her glass hands shaking. She protects the flame that burns in her chest and keeps her warm. In the other boat, is her counterpart, the other side of the equation: Great Lady Afterimage in all her furs and finery. How did she get here — this great lady worshipped all over the world? She is history and glory and regret, and she is holding on for dear life in this storm. Thunder funnels through a gap of cloud. Rain falls down and down. One boat dips below, the other rises above. As always, only one exists. The wind is blowing. Great Lady Afterimage cries out. She calls to the Lantern Child, but there is no response. She does not exist. The Lantern Child shouts and shouts. There is no one. She is the only one who exists. Within her, the flame glimmers, it burns. Now zoom out. Look over the storm as it begins to lose its strength. It huffs. The wind sighs. The great eye remains, not yet closed. Within the eye only one thing exists, only one thing survives: the light, the image, and the image of the light. 


"HELL OF A RIDE"

I remember when I lost my mind
It was a pretty chilly Tuesday night
And the man on the tele said
Build a bunker in your shed
Tell your mum I love her

I'm on day six hundred and thirty-nine
Hello and welcome to my pointless life
Won't you have a slice of pecan pie
Let me show you where I cry
It's in the corner
It's out of order I'm

25, goin on 45, goin on 99, goin on dead
Blink twice, you'll miss the highlights
God it's a hell of a ride, goin on dead

I think of everything I could have been
A superhero in a limousine
Or a hot shot living on top
But instead, look what I've got
The world is on fire so
Baby pass me a lighter - cause I'm...

Looks like the sun's coming out again
And I see my friends and they're over the moon to see me
What a surprise
God I'm glad
I'm alive I'm alive I'm alive


"CONSTELLATIONS"

Perhaps we mortals are doomed to get it wrong every time. We weave ancient myths into modern tapestries, mix up the stories. Exhibit A: the stars in Orion’s Belt don’t even blink when they brush past us on Flatbush Avenue: Zeta, who calls herself Z, Epsilon, who goes by Esa, and Delta, who’s been Deedee since kindergarten. See, we can’t even get their names right as they walk arm-in-arm to get jerk chicken, tossing their braids, cracking their gum—indifferent to Greek hunters, the underworld, the fact that they were worshipped in ancient Egypt. Bright stars render the dimmer ones almost invisible, radiate back twice what they absorb—pure firelight—unaware of black holes or the gravity of gravity, such grace in their disregard for the rest of us, everything coming toward them at light speed.


"WHAT THE DOCTOR SAID"

He said it doesn't look good
he said it looks bad in fact real bad
he said I counted thirty-two of them on one lung before
I quit counting them
I said I'm glad I wouldn't want to know
about any more being there than that
he said are you a religious man do you kneel down
in forest groves and let yourself ask for help
when you come to a waterfall
mist blowing against your face and arms
do you stop and ask for understanding at those moments
I said not yet but I intend to start today
he said I'm real sorry he said
I wish I had some other kind of news to give you
I said Amen and he said something else
I didn't catch and not knowing what else to do
and not wanting him to have to repeat it
and me to have to fully digest it
I just looked at him
for a minute and he looked back it was then
I jumped up and shook hands with this man who'd just given me
something no one else on earth had ever given me
I may have even thanked him habit being so strong


"THE FORCE THAT THROUGH THE GREEN FUSE DRIVES THE FLOWER"

The force that through the green fuse drives the flower
Drives my green age; that blasts the roots of trees
Is my destroyer.
And I am dumb to tell the crooked rose
My youth is bent by the same wintry fever.

The force that drives the water through the rocks
Drives my red blood; that dries the mouthing streams
Turns mine to wax.
And I am dumb to mouth unto my veins
How at the mountain spring the same mouth sucks.

The hand that whirls the water in the pool
Stirs the quicksand; that ropes the blowing wind
Hauls my shroud sail.
And I am dumb to tell the hanging man
How of my clay is made the hangman's lime.

The lips of time leech to the fountain head;
Love drips and gathers, but the fallen blood
Shall calm her sores.
And I am dumb to tell a weather's wind
How time has ticked a heaven round the stars.

And I am dumb to tell the lover's tomb
How at my sheet goes the same crooked worm. 


"DOPAMINE"

he is not in the details
as i was often told
not smoking fiery red
no horns
no fork
no tail

no
the devil is in the dopamine
sliding into synapses
overriding receptors
interfering with the best intentions
afferent and efferent impulses
blocked
diverted
enhanced
as love and lust
motivation and addiction
adoration and adultery
swirl in sensual spirals
tiptoe through thoughts
dance across dreams

i am puppet to the stream
of chemicals flowing
never knowing
who controls the rails
on the mesolimbic line
is the engineer today
infernal or divine


"I KEEP ALIEN THINGS IN MY WARDROBE"

The unicorn eye in a quartz jar has a gaze that cuts glass, like flame devours tinsel. The saber-tooth tiger skull can inhale a whole arm. I have striations of scars from it, undulating roadmaps no one recognizes. Don’t touch the translucent butterfly that waits on the cabinet floor. It takes your skin. Don’t touch anything. Every piece here consumes or erodes. They gore flaws in me. My ultimate novelty is the automaton of his five-year-old daughter that Descartes pried from the hollow in his lungs when she died. The robot child, made of fabric and clockwork, has her hair, eyebrows, and dress. Descartes took her with him to every address, until she was pulled away from his deathbed. All who tried to keep the mechanical doll fled her fixed glare. Finally, someone dumped the robot behind an antique shop. Her eyes follow me, tendrils of orange and mistrust so biting it melts flesh. Yet sometimes I sit at a low table with her, facing away. We have pretend tea. She shakes her head and moves her arms, then needs winding. She can only say, “Dada,” and has salt stains from an old ocean on her porcelain face, across the whole cheek, like a slap. I have not been able to chase that stain from her. Someday I will become her possession in the wardrobe. She owns were she goes. She takes the air. I stiffen. I have the beginning of a maroon mark on my face. You will have to rewind me (remind me): I am part of the collection.


"ULTRAVIOLET BLUES"

Her limbs are as firm as math.
She wears three ironic triangles.
Her eyes repeat the sea.
A faint and faintly damp
blond down extends the aura
of her hair. Her lips
do not leave the yogurt cone
they kiss, but if they did,
would speak essences.

The lone, arrested wave
extrudes not foam but hands,
reaching and pointing.
Other beings on the beach,
nonviable in this medium,
are subliminal smoke.
Though the rotation of the planet
is stilled, two are not harmed
though one is ordinary.

Meanwhile the smile exists.
Till a phone rings that offers
the ever-immanent Other,
his imbricated bêtises,
charms, and money.
That sound was always there.
The being beside her
lets sand sift
through his hand, wishing time would return.


"BOMB FRAGMENTS"

I am tasked with reconstructing the explosive device. Most forensic departments analyze via computer these days, but I still do it by hand; I collect bomb fragments and piece the object together. It’s like working on the world’s most complicated jigsaw puzzle. Many of the fragments are twisted from the explosion; I need to reverse-engineer the blast pattern, bending and reshaping the warped pieces into their original configurations. After my labors, the pieces still do not fit perfectly—I don’t make mistakes, so I know I must be missing some bomb fragments. I ask the detectives, and they say there is still shrapnel from the hospital, extracted out of each victim’s wound. The detectives are reluctant, but they eventually surrender their precious evidence. Even with the bloody shrapnel, I’m still missing something, so I return to the scene with a microscope and tweezers, and I find smaller particles overlooked by the crime scene investigators. The metallic jigsaw makes more sense now, gaining definition with each granule. It is not a grenade or a pipe bomb—the emerging shape is too big. I work on the finer features—divots, dimples, cracks, lines—matching every single metal piece to its corresponding microscopic gap. Gradually, the pieces form a recognizable, singular entity. When each bomb fragment finds a home, I have reassembled the shape of a human being, smiling and happy, on the verge of breaking into fiery pieces. There is something very wrong with me, but it is also very good.


"I AM A SPECTROGRAM"

parturition / explosiveness

We pop into the world with all the pent up force of a plosive, followed by an afterbirth of air. Experts in such things claim the afterbirth is prolonged if the mother’s first language is Korean or Tlingit, brief if she speaks Gaelic or Dahalo, but in all cases we are born with the same amount of accompanying pain and pleasure. 

adolescence / aperiodicity

Our time after childhood is noisy, each experience shifting, volatile, indistinguishable from the next. We shout obscenities and protests, frustrations and follies, hissing aerodynamic complexities through our buckteeth while we wait for shapeless bodies to assume less fleeting forms. We are stupid and unappreciative and we are oblivious to how good things are.

pain / sibilance

Screams and shrieks and shivers are signs of something gone awry. They are strident and high-pitched and do not transmit over phone lines at times of stress. Suck it up, sweetheart, gnash your teeth, and remember that if you feel pain, it is because you feel.

sex / glottal

Touch us and swallow us while we swallow you and find yourself in our throats and in dark spaces sealed from the world by larynxes and cervixes whose pulsating rhythms look almost identical under stroboscopic conditions.

love / liquidity

We love fluidly, with the openness of vowels and with minimal constriction, and when love comes easily and early it is clear, watery, like the day. The variations of love—the unrequited, the fading, the lost—are dark and final and look very unlike the kind we long for. None of us is alone in this; light love and dark love are both universals in the world’s lexicon.

age / sonority

With the years come roundness of body and smoothness of thought. I and you morph into nous and noi. We are honest and exposed, strong enough to sing, knowing we face the final stages of an unavoidable weakening process.

death / lenition

When there are no more vowels, we eat our words like syrup through a straw until debuccalization is complete. Life’s sounds disappear inside us, the haches muets of French, the silent Es of English, and there is no more pain or noise when we delete ourselves. There will be other voiceprints and other waveforms, and they will share the features of our own, but they will be unique.

As ours were.


"IRIS"

And I'd give up forever to touch you
'Cause I know that you feel me somehow
You're the closest to heaven that I'll ever be
And I don't want to go home right now

'Cause all I can taste is this moment
And all I can breathe is your life
So and sooner or later, it's over
I just don't wanna miss you tonight

And you can't fight the tears that ain't coming
Or the moment of truth in your lies
So when everything feels like the movies
Yeah, you bleed just to know you're alive

And I don't want the world to see me
'Cause I don't think that they'd understand
When everything's made to be broken
I just want you to know who I am


"BE MY ANODYNE"

A language exchange apertivo
in which I question motives
as motorinos: gallant, flowering,
pivoting over asphalt
to avoid pedestrians.
You say I habitually roller-skate
on luxury vehicles for show:
these whispered dents —
indicators of alternative
planes and bifurcations:
Socratic body/soul conundrums,
in a dramatic reading, you
are Plato — I am the source of motion,
but I’ve not yet individualized.
The score: there are bass clefts competing
for over priced voice-overs. Always
the burden of proof, always the unspoken
lizards of apology


"YOUR ARMOR"

Would you like the chance to shatter heaven? Would you like to be the one who pulls the sky down just for me? Round and round and round we run, and pretend the sun is all you need I've never known a moment to be frozen You're making deals with minutes that will slip away, just slip away So starve the garden stop the rain- Winter settles on my pedals anyways Is your armor thin again? Do I want to wear I down? Am I worthy to come in? Do you want to be found? Nothing into something into nothing Every rule you break means there's no turning back, no looking back. The words that I could never say - The clutter that is in your way is nothing new..nothing new Is your armor thin again? Do I want to wear it down? Am I worthy to come in? Do you want to be found? Wandering between the girl you search for and the one you leave And I cannot wait.. Chasing you around the room is tempting So near and far away from meaning anything to you- But just remember if you're jumping, I would start my jump off Running after you.


"FLOWERS NEVER BEND WITH THE RAINFALL"

Through the corridors of sleep
Past the shadows dark and deep
My mind dances and leaps in confusion.
I don't know what is real,
I can't touch what I feel
And I hide behind the shield of my illusion.

So I'll continue to continue to pretend
My life will never end,
And flowers never bend
With the rainfall.

The mirror on my wall
Casts an image dark and small
But I'm not sure at all it's my reflection.
I am blinded by the light
Of God and truth and right
And I wander in the night without direction.

So I'll continue to continue to pretend
My life will never end,
And flowers never bend
With the rainfall.

It's no matter if you're born
To play the King or pawn
For the line is thinly drawn 'tween joy and sorrow,
So my fantasy
Becomes reality,
And I must be what I must be and face tomorrow.

So I'll continue to continue to pretend
My life will never end,
And flowers never bend
With the rainfall. 


"AFTER LIFE"

There is an iron coffin, there are hands that come out of my pockets and support my thought, but the night is without walls. ​ You speak, but you speak the words backwards, so to understand you we have to turn the piece of paper over and look through it as through a mirror. ​ The star on your forehead shines so brightly that it reaches your brain and makes a hole in it through which you lose your blood. ​ So your road is red in the dark of the night. ​ This is a picture cut in two by a red line, no, this is the shadow of my desire. ​ I take the star in my hand, it is made of glass and can break, and I put it on the ceiling. ​ It floats in the evening air, like the reflection of a cloud on the water, like the flight of a stone bird in an icy night.


"STRANGE CONSTELLATIONS"

the empty crater smells like fireworks:
a city block swept away
obliterated between
inbreath
and the outbreath that never came

i saw the pictures:
limbs tangled on asphalt
like strange constellations

i wonder:
will I someday wake with colorless eyes
my smile a split femur
my bone chips star-scattered on dark sand

hear my empty breath
choking full with their names:
gunblast men in black Kevlar
and the children who watch
eyes shot through with grief

i stand on the cracked lip
and I wonder:
when they wrap death against their ribs
do they remember a time before,
a time when their future was written differently
in the crisp spill of stars overhead

i sleep and i dream:
the stars are falling to earth
snow drifts of gaseous clouds
and constellations of names
cover my body
i’m drowning to wake up


"THE BIRDS WE DRANK"

We cockfight with bottles,
grey geese and wild turkeys fly, thrown down
the backs of our gullets, wet and on fire,
the fire, only fire we light
in the fog night contact high of joint magnetism –
the kind where your joints should wrap around mine,
my joints should socket yours –
we should stick together.

Spin that bottle again,
your flair is showing, and my predilections
for lace waistbands and silk bra straps
with zebras underneath that you can’t see
racing, stampeding against this voltaic flesh,
all raised hairs and goosepimples
you brush with jimp fingers
as you set down the shot glass.

Pass the juice around the jungle
we have built in our heaven, in our closet,
in this space that belongs to someone else –
space that will not remember us in the morning,
will not remember undone zippers,
sthenic, sweat-soaked zebras, and the birds we drank
from each the other’s maw beneath blankets
scented with sex and the dope in your pockets.

I don’t even know my name
anymore, I don’t care to know yours, I don’t care
what’s in your pants –you aren’t wearing them,
you’re wearing me, I’m wearing the curve of your skin –
somehow we have pierced each other,
somewhere, further, the dawn silence begs
lingering, for another battle, for cigarettes
and coffee I’ll drink if you will.


"SIMPLE TRANSLATIONS"

even before trees rocks I was nothing
when I’m dead nowhere I’ll be nothing

all the bad things I do will go up in smoke
and so will I

if there’s nowhere to rest at the end
how can I get lost on the way?

this ink painting of wind blowing through pines
who hears it?

even before trees rocks I was nothing
when I’m dead nowhere I’ll be nothing

all the bad things I do will go up in smoke
and so will I

if there’s nowhere to rest at the end
how can I get lost on the way?

this ink painting of wind blowing through pines
who hears it?

born born everything is always born
thinking about it try not to

poetry’s hellish bullshit one good way to suffer men love it
men stupid as horses cows

sexual love’s attachment pain is deeper than I can know
wind soothes my thoughts this lust my ceaseless koan

impossibly happy
outrageous eyes ears nose in the cold one silent tinkling bell

clear beautiful nudged by the wind hangs over the polished railing
sin like a madman until you can’t do anything else

no room for any more
night after night after night stay up all night

nothing but your own night
believe in the man facing you now

just narrow your eyes feel the deep love
so many words about it

the only language is you don’t open your lips
no walls no roof no anything my house

doesn’t get wet doesn’t get blown down
you can hear it when it doesn’t even move

you can hear it when the wind forces itself past rocks
clouds very high look
not one word helped them get up there


"ART"

Under the white clouds, the snow is falling.
You can’t see the white clouds, or the snow.
Or the cold, or the white glow of the earth.
A solitary man glides downhill on his skis.
The snow is falling.
It falls until the man disappears back into the landscape.
One of my oldest friends, has bought a painting. It’s a canvas
about five foot by four. It represents a man 
who moves across a space and
disappears


"WIRES AND WAVES"

There are twelve hours, there's a day between us You called to say you're sorry in your own way There are oceans and waves and wires between us And you called to say you're getting older Sometimes, planes, they crash up in the sky Sometimes, lonely hearts, they just get lonelier How did you survive all those fires and floods? How did you survive your insufferable friends? It was the plough that broke the western plains And it's just, my heart gets rejected by my veins And sometimes, planes, they crash up in the sky And sometimes, lonely hearts, they just get lonelier And lonelier, and lonelier, and lonelier


"FALLIN OF THE RAIN"

Once upon a time in the land of misty satin
dreams there stood a house
And a man who painted nature scenes
He painted trees
And fields and animals and streams
And he stayed and he didn't hear the falling
of the rain
No, he didn't hear the falling of the rain

In the forest green lived a girl who put her hair
in braids and she sang
As she walked all about the wooded glades
She was glad when the rain came falling on
her face
And she sang, 'cause she didn't mind the falling
of the rain
No, she didn't mind the falling of the rain
Will it always be the same as we recall?

Does it touch you when the rain begins to fall?
Ah, but I don't want to know and I don't want
to see
Another rainy day without you lying next
to me, ah
High upon a hill far away from the dusty crowd
is a boy
With his eyes on the ground, his head is bowed
He's a fool and his mind is filled with hopeless
dreams
And he waits, but he will not see the falling
of the rain
No, he will not see the falling of the rain
Will it always be the same as we recall?
Does it touch you when the rain begins to fall?
Ah, but I don't want to know and I don't want
to see
Another rainy day without you lying next
to me, ah

So now the boy becomes the man who sits and
paints all day
But the girl with the braids in her hair has
gone away
And it seems that time has brought things
to an end
Nothing's changed, 'cause you can't stop the
falling of the rain
Can't stop the falling of the rain


"A LIGHT IN THE MOON"

A light in the moon the only light is on Sunday. What was the sensible decision. The sensible decision was that notwithstanding many declarations and more music, not even notwithstanding the choice and a torch and a collection, notwithstanding the celebrating hat and a vacation and even more noise than cutting, notwithstanding Europe and Asia and being overbearing, not even notwithstanding an elephant and a strict occasion, not even withstanding more cultivation and some seasoning, not even with drowning and with the ocean being encircling, not even with more likeness and any cloud, not even with terrific sacrifice of pedestrianism and a special resolution, not even more likely to be pleasing. The care with which the rain is wrong and the green is wrong and the white is wrong, the care with which there is a chair and plenty of breathing. The care with which there is incredible justice and likeness, all this makes a magnificent asparagus, and also a fountain.


"WEDNESDAY MORNING, 3 A.M."

I can hear the soft breathing
Of the girl that I love
As she lies here beside me
Asleep with the night
And her hair, in a fine mist
Floats on my pillow
Reflecting the glow
Of the winter moonlight

She is soft, she is warm
But my heart remains heavy
And I watch as her breasts
Gently rise, gently fall
For I know with the first light of dawn
I'll be leaving
And tonight will be
All I have left to recall

Oh, what have I done,
Why have I done it?
I've committed a crime,
I have broken the law
For twenty-five dollars
And pieces of silver
I held up and robbed
A hard liquor store

My life seems unreal,
My crime an illusion
A scene badly written
In which I must play
Yet I know as I gaze
At my young love beside me
The morning is just a few hours away 


"BLUE"

The snub-nosed monster rises to the surface and spouts through his blunt nostrils two columns of water, which, fiery-white in the centre, spray off into a fringe of blue beads. Strokes of blue line the black tarpaulin of his hide. Slushing the water through mouth and nostrils he sings, heavy with water, and the blue closes over him dowsing the polished pebbles of his eyes. Thrown upon the beach he lies, blunt, obtuse, shedding dry blue scales. Their metallic blue stains the rusty iron on the beach. Blue are the ribs of the wrecked rowing boat. A wave rolls beneath the blue bells. But the cathedral’s different, cold, incense laden, faint blue with the veils of madonnas.


"SUMMER PLAIN"

We have seen so much.
Reality has used us up so much,
but here is summer at last:
a large airield—the light controller is bringing down
load after load of frozen
people from space.
The grass and the lowers—here we land.
The grass has a green manager.
I report myself.


"LOOKING BACK"

Remember me before I was a heap of salt,
the laughing child who seldom did
as she was told or came when she was called,
the merry girl who became Lot’s bride,
the happy woman who loved her wicked city.
Do not remember me with pity.
I saw you plodding on ahead
into the desert of your pitiless faith.
Those springs are dry, that earth is dead.
I looked back, not forward, into death.
Forgiving rains dissolve me, and I come
still disobedient, still happy, home.


"RESOLVE"

I am trying to be more intentional. I hate when people use this word. Intentional. Present. Mindful. Take notice while washing the dishes, a mindfulness exercise suggests. Notice the suds, the gloss of the bubbles. Pay attention to the sound of the water, spilling from the tap, hitting the sink basin, gliding over your skin. Focus on how the water swirls down the drain. Notice how each day is a series of small, repetitive tasks stacked atop each other. Not enough to fill you up, to make you whole, but enough to weigh you down. Note how the weight settles into your lower back, aching in the center, a pain originating deep in the bone. Something structural. Something you are too old to bother correcting. Focus on your hands scrubbing the dishes. How the skin, grown loose with age, pools around your knuckles. Notice how you barely recognize these hands. Weak and sore, always struggling with jar lids. Notice how you barely recognize yourself. The folds of your middle like waves, one on top of the other. Note what it feels like to drown. Pay attention to the sound of your scream, echoing behind your eyes, muffled by your pillow, beating against you like a bat through the twilight sky as you stand at the sink. Notice the heat of the water. The way the food stains lift from the plates. Everything washing clean. Everything disappearing. Notice how the sun fades away. How the sky melts from orange to purple to impenetrable black. How night descends without a care. Take note of how another day is ending and here you are, still standing.


"THIS MORNING"

This morning was something. A little snow
lay on the ground. The sun floated in a clear
blue sky. The sea was blue, and blue-green,
as far as the eye could see.
Scarcely a ripple. Calm. I dressed and went
for a walk -- determined not to return
until I took in what Nature had to offer.
I passed close to some old, bent-over trees.
Crossed a field strewn with rocks
where snow had drifted. Kept going
until I reached the bluff.
Where I gazed at the sea, and the sky, and
the gulls wheeling over the white beach
far below. All lovely. All bathed in a pure
cold light. But, as usual, my thoughts
began to wander. I had to will
myself to see what I was seeing
and nothing else. I had to tell myself this is what
mattered, not the other. (And I did see it,
for a minute or two!) For a minute or two
it crowded out the usual musings on
what was right, and what was wrong -- duty,
tender memories, thoughts of death, how I should treat
with my former wife. All the things
I hoped would go away this morning.
The stuff I live with every day. What
I've trampled on in order to stay alive.
But for a minute or two I did forget
myself and everything else. I know I did.
For when I turned back i didn't know
where I was. Until some birds rose up
from the gnarled trees. And flew
in the direction I needed to be going.


"STRETCHED LYRICS: REDUX"

We lay on the bed there Kissing just for practice Could we please be objective? Cause the other boys are queuing up behind us A hand over my mouth A hand over the window Well, if I remain passive and you just want to cuddle Then we should be ok, and we won't get into trouble Cause we're seeing other people At least that's what we say we are doing How are you feeling? I don't think you can be dealing With the situation very well You take a lover for a dirty weekend, that's ok But when it's over You are looking at the working week in the eyes of a gigolo You're kissing your elbow You're kissing your reflection And you can't understand why all the other boys are going for the New, tall, elegant rich kids I'll admit it is a bitch, kid But if they don't see the quality then it is apparent that You're going to have to change Or you're going to have to go with girls You might be better off At least they know what they're doing We lay on the bed there Kissing just for practice Could we please be objective? Cause the other boys are queuing up behind us A hand over my mouth A hand over the window Well, if I remain passive and you just want to cuddle Then we should be ok, and we won't get into trouble Cause we're seeing other people At least that's what we say we are doing. 


"NYQUIL"

Call it iron discipline. But for months
I never took my first drink
before eleven P.M. Not so bad,
considering. This was in the beginning
phase of things. I knew a man
whose drink of choice was Listerine.
He was coming down off Scotch.
He bought Listerine by the case,
and drank it by the case. The back seat
of his car was piled high with dead soldiers.
Those empty bottles of Listerine
gleaming in his scalding back seat!
The sight of it sent me home soul-searching.
I did that once or twice. Everybody does.
Go way down inside and look around.
I spent hours there, but
didn't meet anyone, or see anything
of interest. I came back to the here and now,
and put on my slippers. Fixed
myself a nice glass of NyQuil.
Dragged a chair over to the window.
Where I watched a pale moon struggle to rise
over Cupertino, California.
I waited through hours of darkness with NyQuil.
And then, sweet Jesus! the first sliver
of light.


"SIDEWAYS CONSTELLATION"

Our pot-holed orbit flings me deep and wine-dark numb beneath black-bare seas, and this time I swim: this time my splintered fingertips scrabble aboard a suburban backyard, this time my fingers feed tinder to fading flames, they breathe her skin like an amphibian; I breathe her skin with my skin, sans sails sans direction but his gravity coils tight, it remains a band of rubber, a life-vest clinging to my chest as I try to drown on land. Our necks curve in tandem, we pretend to count meteors, they swim in grey clouds; we make believe I need saving of all things, so I cough and I retch forth the dimly reflected light of phone messages ignored, I throw up every reason not to do this but she is too good a selkie to leave me lost ashore and I am back at sea: A map for this exists, I think: I've seen it in smudgy newsprint in late unmade Sunday beds, in crystal shops with neon lights flickering, but we feel our way together in the dark my blurry eyes create an archer bright and blinding, but I feel she's dripping off my fingers they find no purchase she's a still pool, a ripple-less lake, this light I am drawn to is reflected, refracted, so I make my own waves to connect borrowed lines from these upside-down stars until I've made it: my lover is a Frankensteinian creation stitched of amalgamated burning in a shared sky, and she's not real, but we refuse to sink, we struggle to ascend together our hands clawed and teeth bared and I don't know if I'm flying or falling but gravity snaps back, and the fire is dead, and now I lie on unwashed sheets in his bed I am floating, I am searching our stray arrows through his window until night melts into molten morning, until his key clicks in the front lock and pauses long enough for me to strip off my clothes and lock another door. I stand in the shower until the water drips cold.


"THE OLD DAYS"

You'd dozed in front of the TV
but you hadn't been to bed yet
when you called. I was asleep,
or nearly, when the phone rang
You wanted to tell me you'd thrown
a party. And I was missed.
It was like the old days, you
said, and laughed.
Dinner was a disaster
Everybody dead drunk by the time
food hit the table. People
were having a good time, a great
time, a hell of a time, until
somebody took somebody
else's fiancée upstairs. Then
somebody pulled a knife.

But you got in front of the guy
as he was going upstairs
and talked him down.
Disaster narrowly averted,
you said, and laughed again.
You didn't remember much else
of what happened after that.
People got into their coats
and began to leave. You
must have dropped off for a few
minutes in front of the TV
because it was screaming at you
to get it a drink when you woke up.
Anyway, you're in Pittsburgh,
and I'm in here in this
little town on the other side
of the country. Most everyone
has cleared out of our lives now.


"WHAT THE DOCTOR SAID"

He said it doesn't look good
he said it looks bad in fact real bad
he said I counted thirty-two of them on one lung before
I quit counting them
I said I'm glad I wouldn't want to know
about any more being there than that
he said are you a religious man do you kneel down
in forest groves and let yourself ask for help
when you come to a waterfall
mist blowing against your face and arms
do you stop and ask for understanding at those moments
I said not yet but I intend to start today
he said I'm real sorry he said
I wish I had some other kind of news to give you
I said Amen and he said something else
I didn't catch and not knowing what else to do
and not wanting him to have to repeat it
and me to have to fully digest it
I just looked at him
for a minute and he looked back it was then
I jumped up and shook hands with this man who'd just given me
something no one else on earth had ever given me
I may have even thanked him habit being so strong


"LOST GIRL"

Walking out into the dark
Cutting out a different path
Led by a beating heart
All the people of the town
Cast their eyes right to the ground
In matters of the heart

Summer evening breezes bloom
Drawing voices deep from you
Led by a beating heart
What a year and what a night
What terryifying final sights
Put out your beating heart

The night was all you had;
You ran into the night from all you had
Found yourself a path upon the ground
You ran into the night, you can't be found

If you had your gun
Would you shoot it at the sky?
Why?
To see where your bullet would fall?
Oh, will you come down at all?

This is your racing heart
Can you feel it?
Can you feel it?
Pumps through your veins
Can you feel it?
Can you feel it?


"HAPPINESS"

So early it's still almost dark out.
I'm near the window with coffee,
and the usual early morning stuff
that passes for thought.
When I see the boy and his friend
walking up the road
to deliver the newspaper.
They wear caps and sweaters,
and one boy has a bag over his shoulder.
They are so happy
they aren't saying anything, these boys.
I think if they could, they would take
each other's arm.
It's early in the morning,
and they are doing this thing together.
They come on, slowly.
The sky is taking on light,
though the moon still hangs pale over the water.
Such beauty that for a minute
death and ambition, even love,
doesn't enter into this.
Happiness. It comes on
unexpectedly. And goes beyond, really,
any early morning talk about it.


"ANCESTRY"

I am such a long way from my ancestors now
in my extreme old age that I feel more one of them
than their descendant. Time comes round
in a bodily way I do not understand. Age undoes itself
and plays the Ouroboros. I the only daughter
have always been one of the tiny grandmothers,
laughing at everything, uncomprehending,
incomprehensible.


"UNDER PRESSURE"

The blue sky’s engine drone is deafening.
We’re living on a shuddering worksite
where the ocean depths can suddenly open up—
shells and telephones hiss.
You can see beauty only from the side, hastily.
The dense grain on the ield, many colors in a yellow stream.
The restless shadows in my head are drawn there.
They want to creep into the grain and turn to gold.
Darkness falls. At midnight I go to bed.
The smaller boat sets out from the larger boat.
You are alone on the water.
Society’s dark hull drifts farther and farther away.


"TRANSFORMATION AND ESCAPE"

I reached heaven and it was syrupy.
It was oppressively sweet.
Croaking substances stuck to my knees.
Of all substances St. Michael was stickiest.
I grabbed him and pasted him on my head.   
I found God a gigantic fly paper.
I stayed out of his way.
I walked where everything smelled of burnt chocolate.   
Meanwhile St. Michael was busy with his sword   
hacking away at my hair.
I found Dante standing naked in a blob of honey.   
Bears were licking his thighs.
I snatched St. Michael’s sword
and quartered myself in a great circular adhesive.   
My torso fell upon an elastic equilibrium.
As though shot from a sling
my torso whizzed at God fly paper.
My legs sank into some unimaginable sog.
My head, though weighed with the weight of St. Michael,   
did not fall.
Fine strands of multi-colored gum
suspended it there.
My spirit stopped by my snared torso.
I pulled! I yanked! Rolled it left to right!
It bruised! It softened! It could not free!
The struggle of an Eternity!
An Eternity of pulls! of yanks!
Went back to my head,
St. Michael had sucked dry my brainpan!
Skull!
My skull!
Only skull in heaven!
Went to my legs.
St. Peter was polishing his sandals with my knees!   
I pounced upon him!
Pummeled his face in sugar in honey in marmalade!   
Under each arm I fled with my legs!
The police of heaven were in hot pursuit!
I hid within the sop of St. Francis.
Gasping in the confectionery of his gentility   
I wept, caressing my intimidated legs.

They caught me.
They took my legs away.
They sentenced me in the firmament of an ass.
The prison of an Eternity!
An Eternity of labor! of hee-haws!
Burdened with the soiled raiment of saints
I schemed escape.
Lugging ampullae its daily fill
I schemed escape.
I schemed climbing impossible mountains.
I schemed under the Virgin’s whip.
I schemed to the sound of celestial joy.
I schemed to the sound of earth,
the wail of infants,   
the groans of men,   
the thud of coffins.   
I schemed escape.
God was busy switching the spheres from hand to hand.   
The time had come.
I cracked my jaws.   
Broke my legs.
Sagged belly-flat on plow
on pitchfork
on scythe.
My spirit leaked from the wounds.
A whole spirit pooled.
I rose from the carcass of my torment.   
I stood in the brink of heaven.
And I swear that Great Territory did quake   
when I fell, free.


"THE ABSENCE"

I speak to you across cities
I speak to you across plains

My mouth is upon your pillow

Both faces of the walls come meeting
My voice discovering you

I speak to you of eternity

O cities memories of cities
Cities wrapped in our desires
Cities come early cities come lately
Cities strong and cities secret
Plundered of their master's builders
All their thinkers all their ghosts

Fields pattern of emerald
Bright living surviving
The harvest of the sky over our earth
Feeds my voice I dream and weep
I laugh and dream among the flames
Among the clusters of the sun

And over my body your body spreads
The sheet of it's bright mirror.


"IF WINTER ENDS"

I dreamt of a fever, One that would cure me of this cold, winter set heart. I dreamed of a fever One that would cure me of this cold, winter set heart With heat to melt these frozen tears And burned with reasons as to carry on Into these twisted months I plunge without a light to follow But I swear that I would follow anything If it would just get me out of here And so you get six months to adapt And then you get two more to leave town In the event that you do adapt We still might not want you around And I fell for the promise of a life with a purpose But I know that that is impossible now And so I drink to stay warm And to kill selected memories Because I just can't think anymore about that or about her tonight I give myself three days to feel better Or I swear I'll drive right off a fucking cliff Because if I can't learn to make myself feel better Then how can I expect anyone else to give a shit? And I scream for the sunlight or a car to take me anywhere Just get me past this dead and eternal snow Because I swear that I am dying, slowly, but it's happening So if there is a perfect spring that's waiting somewhere Just take me there and lie to me and say it's going to be all right It's going to be all right, yeah, you worry too much, kid It's going to be all right


"ON DEATH, WITHOUT EXAGGERATION"

It can’t take a joke,
find a star, make a bridge.
It knows nothing about weaving, mining, farming,
building ships, or baking cakes.

In our planning for tomorrow,
it has the final word,
which is always beside the point.

It can’t even get the things done
that are part of its trade:
dig a grave,
make a coffin,
clean up after itself.

Preoccupied with killing,
it does the job awkwardly,
without system or skill.
As though each of us were its first kill.

Oh, it has its triumphs,
but look at its countless defeats,
missed blows,
and repeat attempts!

Sometimes it isn’t strong enough
to swat a fly from the air.
Many are the caterpillars
that have outcrawled it.

All those bulbs, pods,
tentacles, fins, tracheae,
nuptial plumage, and winter fur
show that it has fallen behind
with its halfhearted work.

Ill will won’t help
and even our lending a hand with wars and coups d’etat
is so far not enough.

Hearts beat inside eggs.
Babies’ skeletons grow.
Seeds, hard at work, sprout their first tiny pair of leaves
and sometimes even tall trees fall away.

Whoever claims that it’s omnipotent
is himself living proof
that it’s not.

There’s no life
that couldn’t be immortal
if only for a moment.

Death
always arrives by that very moment too late.

In vain it tugs at the knob
of the invisible door.
As far as you’ve come
can’t be undone.


"DRAMA ONE"

As I am a scholar I feel obliged to document what it is like here, most of the time, between the dramatic climaxes. In truth it is like this: You cannot imagine how time can be so still. It hangs. It weighs, and yet there is so little of it. It goes so slowly and it is so scarce. If I was writing this scene it would last a full 15 minutes. I would lie here and you would sit there. I know all about life and death. I am, after all, a scholar of Donne’s Holy Sonnets, which explore mortality in greater depth than any other body of work in the English language. Nothing but a breath—a comma—separates life from life everlasting. It is very simple really. With the original punctuation restored, death is no longer something to act out on a stage, with exclamation points… Life, death. Soul, God. Past, present. Not insuperable barriers, not semicolons, just a comma.


"PSYCHE"

I am angry with X, with Y, with Z,
for not being you.
Enthusiasms jump at me,
wagging and barking. Go away.
Go home.

I am angry with my eyes for not seeing you,
they smart and ache and see the snow,
an insistent brilliance.

If I were Psyche how could I not
bring the lamp to our bedside?
I would have known in advance
all the travails my gazing
would bring, more than Psyche
ever imagined,
and even so, how could I not have raised
the amber flame to see
the human person I knew
was to be revealed.
She did not even know! She dreaded
a beast and discovered
a god. But I
know, and hunger
to witness again the form
of mortal love itself.

I am angry with everything that is filling
the space of your absence,
breathing your air.
                           Psyche,
how blessed you were
in the dark, knowing him in your flesh:
I was wrong! If I were Psyche
I would live on in darkness, and endure
the foolish voices, barking of aeolian dogs,
                         the desert glitter
of days full of boring treasures,
walking on precious stones till my feet hurt,

to hold you each night and be held
close in your warmth in a pitchblack cave of a room

and not have to wait
for Mercury, dressed in the sad gray coat of a mailman
and no wings on his feet,
to bring me your words.


"MOON TRIP"

What if we live in different worlds and are still earthbound, this fleshly ground we shared in breath, in book stores fingering gently our favorite detective story. What if we are just humans for one night, wanting to be held in a hand not very different from our own. What if I call you. What if there’s a god actually taking care of you. When I look out the window I see leaves peeling away from each other and want to believe everything unsaid has been said, years ago, when we felt the same flower falling or not. How tentative I was when you turned back to touch my shoulder, not knowing love and shortage are the same thing at different times. What if I forgive you and give you a yellow star for Christmas. What if there’s no holiday no present not even a goddamn bed in heaven, only the grave/grave night they tucked you in, like casting a star into a burnt black hole. I am at your door now. Where are you. What if I say I miss you. And what if you will come back anyway? When you show up, I will shake stardust off your clothes, make sure every light sifts from your face like a bubble, say: love you. Love your new shampoo. Love every hard beat of your heart.


"ACTS OF GROUNDING"

Put your neon hands in the air, dig feet
in deep soil, plow, past the crust arc
your spine and its electric uncoiling –

open arms the width of wind, remember
you are dragon, you are parabolas of water
shot skyward, remember to dive –

there is no fall, only spirit and wrought iron
bones, their sway in the stars weaving
will keep a smile in your skull
when the flesh is still warm.


"NOTHING"

I am going to write about nothing. Nothing at all. Did you ever think hard and say, what is nothing? Nothing is really nothing at all to try to figure out.
Look, a comet comes down from nothing crashes into the earth and the earth is scattered to the winds of nothing in little pieces and suppose I survive and you survive and we begin our journey through nothing.
How would you like that? I would like that if I could be conscious of it. It would be a great experience to travel up and down and to the left and the right through nothing at all and just keep traveling around and seeing nothing but distant stars and feeling nothing’neath my feet and just flying about through nothing.
If I could live through it I would enjoy it. But soon I would get hungry and I would want to eat something but there is nothing in the line of something in nothing, so that I would starve to death and then I would be traveling through nothing but then I myself would not know about it so that I would not enjoy it. Because enjoying is a sensation of living, as you know, and to enjoy you must live and all that, etc. And so it amounts to nothing, nothing, nothing. And soon I guess things would get at me and I would soon dissolve, and then absolve into nothing and become part of nothing.
I know some day I will be nothing. (Think hard I say to myself. Think very hard and consider yourself nothing.) I will be nothing someday because I will be part of the dust of the earth which will scatter to the winds of nothing (not the four winds of the earth, but the sextillion winds of nothing) and I will scatter and fly about through nothing and be nothing. Maybe—a million years from now. And I will be nothing. I try to think hard and imagine myself nothing, but I am too much alive to think myself nothing so that despite the fact that I know its inevitability, I feel as if I’ll always go on, but I know better.
And when the dust of the earth will scatter to the winds of nothing, then even the particles of dust themselves will begin to dissect themselves and they themselves will emulate the earth’s big act of dissolving and dissolve themselves. Then the particles of the dust particles will in turn dissolve, and this process will continue a million billion times over and over again until the particles will become so small that they will not be far from nothing. Then when eternity ends, the process of making all the particles of the earth into nothing will have been completed. And so I say eternity will never end, because that is what it means. So I look at it this way: When I look into the sky and see nothing (space is nothing) I should kneel down and weep with joy at the marvelousness of such perfect nothingness. Can you imagine how many billions of aeons nothing had to go through before it reached its stage of nothingness? I imagine it because I just found out that the earth will never quite completely be nothing.


"GUNSONG"

We were not born saviors,
lowly participation trophy knights and fragile birds –
no, the blood of success drained slowly over the table,
        	the last supper of each golden child
        	before the greatest rhetoric failed and forced us
        	kicking and screaming
        	into our own trenches:
we refuse to be seen
crying, hiding instead beneath histories
revised by the bliss of forgetting;
        	we lay hands because it is easier to speak in limbs and lips
        	than with the loaded guns of our tongues,
                    	la dee da da dee da –
one cut is one cut too many, so we dance,
        	two forward,
three back,
        	a tango, a foxtrot,
        	waging our wars in private,
        	where we can take the safety off,
        	and touch our scars
        	and wonder –
	how much peace can we endure?


"ARSONIST'S LULLABYE"

When I was a child, I heard voices Some would sing and some would scream You soon find you have few choices I learned the voices died with me When I was a child, I'd sit for hours Staring into open flame Something in it had a power Could barely tear my eyes away All you have is your fire And the place you need to reach Don't you ever tame your demons But always keep 'em on a leash When I was 16, my senses fooled me Thought gasoline was on my clothes I knew that something would always rule me I knew the scent was mine alone All you have is your fire And the place you need to reach Don't you ever tame your demons But always keep 'em on a leash When I was a man I thought it ended When I knew love's perfect ache But my peace has always depended On all the ashes in my wake All you have is your fire And the place you need to reach Don't you ever tame your demons But always keep 'em on a leash


"COSMIC LOVE"

A falling star fell from your heart and landed in my eyes
I screamed aloud as it tore through them
And now it's left me blind
The stars, the moon
They have all been blown out
You've left me in the dark
No dawn, no day
I'm always in this twilight
In the shadow of your heart
And in the dark
I can hear your heartbeat
I tried to find the sound
But then it stopped
And I was in the darkness
So darkness I became
I took the stars from my eyes and then I made a map
And knew that somehow I could find my way back
Then I heard your heart beating, you were in the darkness too
So I stayed in the darkness with you


"DIOGENES WAS TO BECOME AN IDOL"

It is not that I am mad, it is only that my head is different from yours. I am searching for the bones of an emperor but cannot distinguish them from those of a servant. It is the privilege of the gods to want nothing, and of godlike men to want little. As a matter of self-preservation, a man needs good friends or ardent enemies, for the former instruct him and the latter take him to task. 


"CLOUDS"

The clouds as I see them, rising   
urgently, roseate in the   
mounting of somber power

surging in evening haste over   
roofs and hermetic   
grim walls—

                          Last night
as if death had lit a pale light
in your flesh, your flesh
was cold to my touch, or not cold   
but cool, cooling, as if the last traces   
of warmth were still fading in you.
My thigh burned in cold fear where   
yours touched it.

But I forced to mind my vision of a sky   
close and enclosed, unlike the space in which these clouds move—
a sky of gray mist it appeared—
and how looking intently at it we saw
its gray was not gray but a milky white
in which radiant traces of opal greens,
fiery blues, gleamed, faded, gleamed again,
and how only then, seeing the color in the gray,   
a field sprang into sight, extending
between where we stood and the horizon,

a field of freshest deep spiring grass   
starred with dandelions,
green and gold
gold and green alternating in closewoven   
chords, madrigal field.

Is death’s chill that visited our bed   
other than what it seemed, is it   
a gray to be watched keenly?

Wiping my glasses and leaning westward,   
clearing my mind of the day’s mist and leaning   
into myself to see
the colors of truth

I watch the clouds as I see them   
in pomp advancing, pursuing   
the fallen sun.


"PRAIRIE THREADS"

The cowboys come army riding horses
and cowgirls, wearing boots and weaponized heels,
fucking wagons don’t care for roaming pedestrians
like people who say I live here, or bison, or earth,
no they come bayonet and bullet speed
dressed up to smoke fat cigars and strip
entire lands of spirit traded for gold
and blood sluice under wagon, under machines
that drill the ground that explode mountain into face,
that sew, like you, but faster –
at home the needle has passed through the wall,
the hole that is left pinpricks sunlight
into the ground – you place your eye
beside the passage between shelter and beyond –
the friendly wave of grass, sky
grinning wide white clouds, filtered
daystar burning its way through petals,
pasque and lilac in the changing wind, whistling
a flattening force, a force to reduce
you to two dimensions,
measured in spaghetti thread and whiskey – 
you do not know
the needle is a silent prophet: 
if the wall falls,
the hole remains, wide open –
you could see everything,
but it wouldn’t matter at all.


"NORMAN FUCKING ROCKWELL"

Godamn, man child You fucked me so good that I almost said, "I love you" You're fun and you're wild But you don't know the half of the shit that you put me through Your poetry's bad and you blame the news But I can't change that and I can't change your mood Ah-ah, oh 'Cause you're just a man It's just what you do Your head in your hands As you color me blue Yeah, you're just a man All through and through Your head in your hands As you color me blue Blue, blue, blue Goddamn, man child You act like a kid even though you stand six foot two Self-loathing poet, resident Laurel Can-you-know-it-all You talk to the walls when the party gets bored of you But I don't get bored, I just see it through Why wait for the best when I could have you? You 'Cause you're just a man It's just what you do Your head in your hands As you color me blue Yeah, you're just a man All through and through Your head in your hands As you color me blue Blue, blue You make me blue Blue, blue Blue, blue, blue, blue


"EVIDENCE, SYSIPHUS"

This is how the hills layer
oceanic ghosts, ancient

Diluvian waves settling history
cakelike in the heart –

after the sand and the cold
mother’s milk evaporates

into red stratum, bleeding
more and less in bursting grass

pushing the shoots
through the giant’s pillows,

the giant’s corpse, a wake up
calling the land to rise

and raise the forest, pine
and dryad, needles and soft

sheets of shadow – grey
becoming more grey, darker

ever until the valley sinks
beneath the blue that makes

each blade green and grow
(I have so much blue in me)

seeking the sun and further
stars folded over from seas

beyond these four measures
we observe, vestigial and flat,

faultless in their alternating
currents, wet and air flow

from the cliff face, bleeding
where you stand conqueror
atop your gutted failures
falling out of the mountain

you’re trying to move. 
Again.


"COLORED PILLS"

Cinnamon in my teeth From your kiss You're touching me All the pills that you did Violet, blue, green, red to keep me At arm's length don't work You try to push me out But I just find my way back in Violet, blue, green, red to keep me out I win There's things I wanna say to you But I'll just let you live Like if you hold me without hurting me You'll be the first who ever did There's things I wanna talk about But better not to give But if you hold me without hurting me You'll be the first who ever did Hold me, love me, touch me, honey Be the first who ever did Kerosene in my hands You make me mad, I'm fire again All the pills that you take Violet, blue, green, red to keep me at arm's length don't work There's things I wanna say to you, but I'll just let you leave Like if you hold me without hurting me You'll be the first who ever did There's things I wanna talk about, but better not to keep But if you hold me without hurting me You'll be the first who ever did There's things I wanna say to you, but I'll just let you leave Like if you hold me without hurting me You'll be the first who ever did There's things I wanna talk about, but better not to keep Like if you hold me without hurting me You'll be the first who ever did


"GREY STREET"

Oh, look at how she listens
She says nothing of what she thinks
She just goes stumbling through her memories
Staring out onto Grey Street
She thinks, "Hey, how did I come to this?
I dream myself a thousand times around the world
But I can't get out of this place."

There's an emptiness inside her
And she'd do anything to fill it in
But all the colors mix together to grey
And it breaks her heart

How she wishes it was different
She prays to God most every night
And though she swears it doesn't listen
There's still a hope in her it might
She says, "I pray
But they fall on deaf ears
Am I supposed to take it on myself?
To get out of this place?"

There's loneliness inside her
And she'd do anything to fill it in
And though it's red blood bleeding from her now
It feels like cold blue ice in her heart
When all the colors mix together to grey
And it breaks her heart

There's a stranger speaks outside her door
Says, "Take what you can from your dreams
Make them as real as anything
It'd take the work out of the courage."
But she says, "Please
There's a crazy man that's creeping outside my door
I live on the corner of Grey Street
And the end of the world."

There's an emptiness inside her
And she'd do anything to fill it in
And though it's red blood bleeding from her now
It's more like cold blue ice in her heart
She feels like kicking out all the windows
And setting fire to this life
She could change everything about her
Using colors bold and bright
But all the colors mix together to grey
And it breaks her heart
It breaks her heart
To grey 


"LONG STRING OF BLUES"

Life is a train of moods like a string of beads and as we pass through them they prove to be many-colored lenses which paint the world their own hue, and each shows only what lies in it's focus. To find oneself trapped in any one bead, no matter what it's hue, can be deadly. The half-circle of blinding turquoise ocean is this love’s primal scene. That this blue exists makes my life a remarkable one, just to have seen it. To have seen such beautiful things. To find oneself placed in their midst. Choiceless. I returned there yesterday and stood again upon the mountain. But what kind of love is it, really? Don’t fool yourself and call it sublimity. Admit that you have stood in front of a little pile of powdered ultramarine pigment in a glass cup at a museum and felt a stinging desire. But to do what? Liberate it? Purchase it? Ingest it? . . . You might want to reach out and disturb the pile of pigment, for example, first staining your fingers with it, then staining the world. You might want to dilute it and swim in it, you might want to rouge your nipples with it, you might want to paint a virgin’s robe with it. But still you wouldn’t be accessing the blue of it. Not exactly. It calms me to think of blue as the color of death. I have long imagined death's approach as the swell of a wave - a towering wall of blue. You will drown, the world tells me, has always told me. You will descend into a blue underworld, blue with hungry ghosts, Krishna blue, the blue faces of the ones you loved. They all drowned, too. To take a breath of water: does the thought panic or excite you? If you are in love with red then you slit or shoot. If you are in love with blue you fill your pouch with stones good for sucking and head down to the river. Any river will do.


"LIKE FINDING GREENLAND, LOST IN THE RAIN"

Everybody capsizes.
This is what happens
when the body, 
seventy-three percent water,
meets the rest of the ocean:
A great slowing of your heart,
scraps of reflex from infancy,
a displaced volume of habit 
from the lives before –
a swim inside,
the knife of the salt you swallowed,
air you breathed, stabbing through 
seasons of monsoon and landslide.
The ghost of your grandmother,
wrapped in steam, comes like a scream 
from a tea kettle, pouring out wind
for the tired sails of your lungs – 
she tells you about diving,
how maps are not made for navigating 
underwater, anchored 
to the bent floor of a sunken ship.
You rise, steady.
Evaporation is a slower process than drowning – 
the pressure of the sky breaks like a wave
on the numb coast of your skin, a wash,
minerals of hard water and oil slick,
an uncertain baptism of stars 
revealing distant cliffs, a new threshold.


"THE BEST DECEPTIONS"

I heard about the trip. I heard about your souveneirs. I heard about the cool breeze in the cool nights And the cool guys That you spent them with. I guess i should have heard of them from you I guess i should have heard of them from you Don't you see, don't you see, That the charade is over? And all the best deceptions And the clever cover story awards Go to you. So kiss me hard 'cuz this'll be the last time that i let you. You will be back someday And this awkward kiss That tells of other people's lips Will be of service, to giving you away. I heard about your regrets. I heard that you were feeling sorry. I heard from someone that you wished you could Set things right between us. I guess I should have heard of that from you I guess I should have heard of that from you So don't you see, don't you see, That the charade is over? And all the best deceptions And the clever cover story awards Go to you. So kiss me hard 'cuz this'll be the last time that i let you. You will be back someday, And this awkward kiss that screams of other people's lips Will be of service In giving you away. To giving you away. I'm waiting for blood To flow to my fingers I'll be all right when my hands get warm. Ignoring the phone, I'd rather say nothing, I'd rather you never heard my voice. You're calling too late, Too late to be gracious. And you do not warrant long good-byes. You're calling too late, You're calling too late.


"BASTET"

I stand, as I live and breathe,
practicing the art
of being dead. Maybe,
waiting for war, a kiss, a touch. I know
I am becoming more like a cat,
less like a human – attaching myself
to the floor, the wall, a lap, lapping quietly 
the milk in the darkness. It tastes like the flowers
in my mother’s perfume, honeysuckle,
clay and insecurity. I can feel everything,
even when I can’t see – 
once my eyes overpower the absence of light,
I will purr and be invincible, 
silk in the night, infinite, immovable;
I will rule the world with paws, so supple, 
sheathing fierce claws 
destined for more than drapery.


"THE PETAL BOX"

Every spring when we traverse sunset evening pathways softly illuminated by horizon-born fireflies floating in the wind, you grasp your handmade, wooden petal box in your etched, exposed hands. Embraced by the shadows drained from the calling branches, you rummage the nearby foliage for petals attached to hidden beauty. As I trace the indentations of your tiptoed footsteps, violet hydrangeas tether your vision to their open bodies, their petals a collage of scattered crowns on their swaying heads. You pluck a single petal seamlessly, placing it tenderly amidst the other petals forming an array of captured sunset undertones. I observe remnants of the elegance stemming from forsythia, foxgloves, forget-me-nots, and other blossoms decorating our surroundings. As we navigate back to the sanded walkways, I ask you about the reason behind your handpicked collection. You tell me you desire to immortalize the designed splendor spread over washed soils and damaged lands. Showers of the skies’ observances lavish natural emotions over our thin, tattered raincoats. We sprint toward the bus stop where other flora take cover under glass panes.

"ARTS AND SCIENCES"

What if this time I don’t begin with a requiem
or a memento mori with a split pomegranate
and a harem of flies? What if instead I tell you

a sleeping octopus changes colors while dreaming,
or how my gender is sable and softens with all
the gorgeous etceteras of age. No one guessed

a chameleon’s tongue measured longer than
its body, but it unscrolled beyond tail, beyond
reasonable need. We wanted the mystery

of Mona Lisa, but a physician in line at the Louvre
stood staring so long he noticed her thinning hair,
her yellowed eye, and diagnosed her thyroid.

Sometimes it pays to wait. After all, love is
a syllabus of domestic chores with rolling
due dates and extra-credit candlelight. I once

loved someone who hated raspberries. That was
my first mistake. What if this time I love someone
like you who likes fur on a fruit, someone who’s

better at suffering, who doesn’t confuse their
sensitivity with goodness. What if this time
I think of Darwin, who saw a rare orchid

with a nectary a foot long and exclaimed
Good Heavens what insect can suck it. But he knew
that anatomy could not exist unless a moth

evolved a tongue alongside it, some unknown
species with a proboscis long enough to complete
this union. No one believed because no one

had seen it. Victorian women used belladonna
drops to widen their pupils—that Latin word
for little doll—and make their gaze a black mirror

so lovers could see themselves. You push me
back to study it, the best distance for beholding.
Always you lament, torn by this choice of look

or touch, but it’s time, you say, and close your eyes.
I admit it’s easy to spot a forgery with an X-ray—
brushstrokes too quick, rendering too clean,

the first draft the final one. Behind a masterpiece—
lavender swapped for gray, a lamb under the unicorn,
a hundred mistakes proving how difficult it is to

become something. You joke I’m the Isaac Newton
of feelings. I can predict failure’s orbital speed,
can calculate the chess of silence and confession,

or even the path vines will take to injure the brick.
It’s a gift from my last love, who made a study
of his wounds, made me balletic, a cat burglar

in a house of eggshells. But what if this time
I can’t see it all coming—not the coup dressed
in Fahrenheit, not you dressed as Aphrodite,

not how I could ever trust your marble hands
cooling the twin crescents of sweat beneath
my breasts, marvelling at this wealth of apples.


"THE BRILLIANT DANCE"

So this is odd, The painful realization That all has gone wrong And nobody cares at all, And nobody cares at all. So you buried all your lover's clothes And burned the letters lover wrote, But it doesn't make it any better. Does it make it any better? And the plaster dented from your fist In the hall where you had your first kiss Reminds you that the memories will fade. So this is strange, Our sidestepping has come to be A brilliant dance Where nobody leads at all, Where nobody leads at all. And the picture frames are facing down And the ringing from this empty sound Is deafening and keeping you from sleep. And breathing is a foreign task And thinking's just too much to ask And you're measuring your minutes by a clock that's blinking eights. Well, this is incredible. Starving, insatiable, Yes, this is love for the first time. And you'd like to think that you were invincible. Yeah, well weren't we all once Before we felt loss for the first time? Well this is the last time.


"VOLT"

The inclined towers the oblique skies
The cars descending into the void of roads
The creatures along the country lanes
Branches covered with hospitable virtues
With leaf-shaped birds at their crowns
You walk but another walks in your footsteps
Distilling her spite through fragments of memory and math
Enveloped by a robe almost mute the clotted sound of capitals

The seething city dense both with proud cries and lights
Overflows the saucepan of its eyelids
Tears flow away in streams of wretched population
Over the sterile plain towards the smooth flesh the lava
Of shadowy mountains the apocalyptic temptations
Lost in the landscape of a memory and a darkened rose
I roam the narrow streets around you
While you too roam different wider streets
Round something other


"HOW TO PAINT A WATER LILY"

A green level of lily leaves
Roofs the pond's chamber and paves

The flies' furious arena: study
These, the two minds of this lady.

First observe the air's dragonfly
That eats meat, that bullets by

Or stands in space to take aim;
Others as dangerous comb the hum

Under the trees. There are battle-shouts
And death-cries everywhere hereabouts

But inaudible, so the eyes praise
To see the colours of these flies

Rainbow their arcs, spark, or settle
Cooling like beads of molten metal

Through the spectrum. Think what worse
is the pond-bed's matter of course;

Prehistoric bedragoned times
Crawl that darkness with Latin names,

Have evolved no improvements there,
Jaws for heads, the set stare,

Ignorant of age as of hour—
Now paint the long-necked lily-flower

Which, deep in both worlds, can be still
As a painting, trembling hardly at all

Though the dragonfly alight,
Whatever horror nudge her root.


"YOU WERE A HOUSE ON FIRE"

And you were a house on fire, and I couldn't understand why Burn me all down to the ground, you said, the fire is on the inside Flames dancing like ghosts, behind the windows Pain jumping from the walls You want to keep this private, I can see that But you can't ask that of me, we've only just met I said we need hope now more than ever before, do you believe it? The answer was silence, I'll take it as a no We all wanna be normal anyways We all wanna be somewhere else, somewhere we live But that's not reality, it's just point of view Let's not talk about the weather Whether or not there's really rain, the clouds Unless you just wanna know if I feel the same as you It's more measuring up than just wasting time But time is not on our side, you're burning Rain would only be a temporary fix And there's just no place right now for cute ironies Like that anymore, your house is on fire We all write songs about life, we just sing them different You sing the words, but you don't know the song And you expect us all to sing along, how selfish The lengths that we go to, to put so much distance between us is staggering You're burning alive with stress and life Both hands in flames trying to hold the fire inside Drop and roll, repeat line for emphasis I'll repeat it and repeat it until you believe it You're gonna be okay, say it to me The answer is still silence, I'll take it as a maybe I can't decide if I should knock down your door or on it Say the word, and I'll take an axe to your heart or a pin prick Cut right through the dark, let it spill out the contents On our knees sorting through the remnants Pour out your hate in my hands, I'll let 'em slip through my fingers And this is for all of us, This is for the times that we only listen long enough To know the other person we're talking to has the same opinions we do For when we're burning inside, for when we're trying to hide that fact This is for the scalps that we went after, to be only the best dressed To add another notch on our belts, put another feather to our headdress Well, I wanna be the bigger man for you, but I can't take, all is true I'm trying to kick the habit here, but these track marks are a hundred proof "Burn me all down to the ground, " you said Or I'll kick through your ashes, hope they sober up my head


"AIR AND ANGELS"

Twice or thrice had I loved thee,
Before I knew thy face or name;
So in a voice, so in a shapeless flame,
Angels affect us oft, and worshipped be;
Still when, to where thou wert, I came,
Some lovely glorious nothing I did see.
But since my soul, whose child love is,
Takes limbs of flesh, and else could nothing do,
More subtle than the parent is,
Love must not be, but take a body too;
And therefore what thou wert, and who,
I bid love ask, and now
That it assume thy body I allow,
And fix itself to thy lip, eye, and brow.

Whilst thus to ballast love I thought,
And so more steadily to have gone,
With wares which would sink admiration,
I saw I had love's pinnace overfraught
Every thy hair for love to work upon
Is much too much, some fitter must be sought;
For, nor in nothing, nor in things
Extreme and scatt'ring bright, can love inhere.
Then as an angel, face and wings
Of air, not pure as it, yet pure doth wear,
So thy love may be my love's sphere.
Just such disparity
As is 'twixt air and angel's purity,
'Twixt women's love and men's will ever be. 


"CHARLIE BROWN"

Stole a key
Took a car downtown where the lost boys meet
Took a car downtown and took what they offered me
To set me free
I saw the lights go down at the end of the scene
Saw the lights go down and standing in front of me
In my scarecrow dreams
When they smash my heart into smithereens
Be a bright red rose come bursting the concrete
Be a cartoon heart
Light a fire, a fire a spark
Light a fire, a flame in my heart
We'll run wild
We'll be glowing in the dark
We'll be glowing in the dark
All the boys, all the girls, all that matters in the world
All the boys, all the girls, all the madness that occurs
All the highs, all the lows, as the room a-spinning goes
We'll run riot
We'll be glowing in the dark
So we'll soar
Luminous and wired
We'll be glowing in the dark


"MY DAUGHTER LISTENS TO TREES"

My daughter listens to trees. She always has. When her legs ceased to buckle and she could toddle freely about, she’d find her way across to the Silver Birch in the playground and hug it like she would my leg. I thought she was giving it a kiss, but then I saw her ear pressed to the peeling bark and I slowly came to understand.

She’s seven now and she can tell all the trees apart by their whispers. I humour her, taking her on trips to the botanic gardens so she can listen to the Cambridge Oak (“sounds like grandad!”) and the Holford Pine (“it’s calling to the pine cones, saying take care!”) and the sprightly Persian Ironwood (“I can’t make sense of it but it sounds like singing!”).

One day I made a mistake. I didn’t notice the parasitic mistletoe growing high up on the bare branches of her favourite Silver Birch. She came back in tears. “He’s dying, he’s afraid, and he’s alone,” she sobbed. I didn’t know what to say. All I could do was hug her like she did the trees, and listen to her rattling heart beating fast within its cage.


"DOUBLE RED DAISIES"

Double red daisies, they’re my flowers,
 Which nobody else may grow.  
In a big quarrelsome house like ours  
 They try it sometimes—but no,  
I root them up because they’re my flowers,
 Which nobody else may grow.
 
Claire has a tea-rose, but she didn’t plant it;  
Ben has an iris, but I don’t want it.  
Daisies, double red daisies for me,  
The beautifulest flowers in the garden.
 
Double red daisy, that’s my mark:  
 I paint it in all my books!  
It’s carved high up on the beech-tree bark,  
 How neat and lovely it looks!  
So don’t forget that it’s my trade mark;
 Don’t copy it in your books.  
 
Claire has a tea-rose, but she didn’t plant it;  
Ben has an iris, but I don’t want it.  
Daisies, double red daisies for me,  
The beautifulest flowers in the garden.


"GREEN"

THE ported fingers of glass hang downwards. The light slides down the glass, and drops a pool of green. All day long the ten fingers of the lustre drop green upon the marble. The feathers of parakeets—their harsh cries—sharp blades of palm trees—green, too; green needles glittering in the sun. But the hard glass drips on to the marble; the pools hover above the dessert sand; the camels lurch through them; the pools settle on the marble; rushes edge them; weeds clog them; here and there a white blossom; the frog flops over; at night the stars are set there unbroken. Evening comes, and the shadow sweeps the green over the mantelpiece; the ruffled surface of ocean. No ships come; the aimless waves sway beneath the empty sky. It’s night; the needles drip blots of blue. The green’s out.


"THRUSHES"

Terrifying are the attent sleek thrushes on the lawn,
More coiled steel than living - a poised
Dark deadly eye, those delicate legs
Triggered to stirrings beyond sense - with a start, a bounce,
a stab
Overtake the instant and drag out some writhing thing.
No indolent procrastinations and no yawning states,
No sighs or head-scratchings. Nothing but bounce and stab
And a ravening second.

Is it their single-mind-sized skulls, or a trained
Body, or genius, or a nestful of brats
Gives their days this bullet and automatic
Purpose? Mozart's brain had it, and the shark's mouth
That hungers down the blood-smell even to a leak of its own
Side and devouring of itself: efficiency which
Strikes too streamlined for any doubt to pluck at it
Or obstruction deflect.

With a man it is otherwise. Heroisms on horseback,
Outstripping his desk-diary at a broad desk,
Carving at a tiny ivory ornament
For years: his act worships itself - while for him,
Though he bends to be blent in the prayer, how loud and
above what
Furious spaces of fire do the distracting devils
Orgy and hosannah, under what wilderness
Of black silent waters weep.


"THE RAINBOW OF OLD"

If I were the moon, I know where I would fall down. Why, oh why must one grow up, why must one inherit this heavy, numbing responsibility of living an undiscovered life? Out of the nothingness and the undifferentiated mass, to make something of herself! But what? In the obscurity and pathlessness to take a direction! But whither? How take even one step? And yet, how stand still? This was torment indeed, to inherit the responsibility of one’s own life. And yet - and yet - one's kite will rise on the wind as far as ever one has string to let it go. It tugs and tugs and will go, and one is glad the further it goes, even if everybody else is nasty about it. She turned, and saw a great white moon looking at her over the hill. And her breast opened to it, she was cleaved like a transparent jewel to its light. She stood filled with the full moon, offering herself. Her two breasts opened to make way for it, her body opened wide like a quivering anemone, a soft, dilated invitation touched by the moon. Why must one climb the hill ? Why must one climb? Why not stay below? Why force one’s way up the slope? Why force one’s way up and up, when one is at the bottom? Oh, it was very tiring, very wearying, very burdensome. Always burdens, always, always burdens.


"THE MINOTAUR"

The mahogany table-top you smashed
Had been the broad plank top
Of my mother's heirloom sideboard-
Mapped with the scars of my whole life.

That came under the hammer.
That high stool you swung that day
Demented by my being
Twenty minutes late for baby-minding.

'Marvellous!' I shouted, 'Go on,
Smash it into kindling.
That's the stuff you're keeping out of your poems!'
And later, considered and calmer,

'Get that shoulder under your stanzas
And we'll be away.' Deep in the cave of your ear
The goblin snapped his fingers.
So what had I given him?

The bloody end of the skein
That unravelled your marriage,
Left your children echoing
Like tunnels in a labyrinth.

Left your mother a dead-end,
Brought you to the horned, bellowing
Grave of your risen father
And your own corpse in it.


"FOUNDATIONAL SHIFT"

You forget so easily that you are made of water, skin woven like wicker around a balloon. Before you die, IV needle in your arm, hands and faces falling away, before your weakened bladder drains in a final act of humiliation, you ask a human question: “Where does all the water go?” You cannot see the saline in your blood, an infinity of hedrons, awaiting the flame of cremation –pain will evaporate, you will evaporate. A fallen angel or alien or Amitābha will cradle what crystals are left of you, saying: “Water is all the same. What makes us different is the salt.” They will unweave your ghost in the ocean, singing: “You could build a castle with the salt of the dead, you could build a kingdom with the salt of the living - thirty thousand tears for a single body’s alkali.” And you, free of the needles and the flames, will rise alone, a new fortress full of contrary clerics chanting: “There are more pains in life than salt.”


"FAKE PLASTIC TREES"

Her green plastic watering can
For her fake Chinese rubber plant
In the fake plastic earth
That she bought from a rubber man
In a town full of rubber plans
To get rid of itself

It wears her out

She lives with a broken man
A cracked polystyrene man
Who just crumbles and burns
He used to do surgery
For girls in the eighties
But gravity always wins

And it wears him out

She looks like the real thing
She tastes like the real thing
My fake plastic love
But I can't help the feeling
I could blow through the ceiling
If I just turn and run

And it wears me out

And if I could be who you wanted
If I could be who you wanted
All the time


"KUBLA KHAN"

In Xanadu did Kubla Khan
A stately pleasure-dome decree :
Where Alph, the sacred river, ran
Through caverns measureless to man
     Down to a sunless sea.
So twice five miles of fertile ground
With walls and towers were girdled round :
And there were gardens bright with sinuous rills,
Where blossomed many an incense-bearing tree ;
And here were forests ancient as the hills,
Enfolding sunny spots of greenery.

But oh ! that deep romantic chasm which slanted
Down the green hill athwart a cedarn cover !
A savage place ! as holy and enchanted
As e'er beneath a waning moon was haunted
By woman wailing for her demon-lover !
And from this chasm, with ceaseless turmoil seething,
As if this earth in fast thick pants were breathing,
A mighty fountain momently was forced :
Amid whose swift half-intermitted burst
Huge fragments vaulted like rebounding hail,
Or chaffy grain beneath the thresher's flail :
And 'mid these dancing rocks at once and ever
It flung up momently the sacred river.
Five miles meandering with a mazy motion
Through wood and dale the sacred river ran,
Then reached the caverns measureless to man,
And sank in tumult to a lifeless ocean :
And 'mid this tumult Kubla heard from far
Ancestral voices prophesying war !
     The shadow of the dome of pleasure
     Floated midway on the waves ;
     Where was heard the mingled measure
     From the fountain and the caves.
It was a miracle of rare device,
A sunny pleasure-dome with caves of ice !

     A damsel with a dulcimer
     In a vision once I saw :
     It was an Abyssinian maid,
     And on her dulcimer she played,
     Singing of Mount Abora.
     Could I revive within me
     Her symphony and song,
     To such a deep delight 'twould win me,
That with music loud and long,
I would build that dome in air,
That sunny dome ! those caves of ice !
And all who heard should see them there,
And all should cry, Beware ! Beware !
His flashing eyes, his floating hair !
Weave a circle round him thrice,
And close your eyes with holy dread,
For he on honey-dew hath fed,
And drunk the milk of Paradise. 


"BUCKET LISTS ARE FOR FOOLS, I SAY, BUT WHEN I FEEL LIKE I'M DYING"

there are some places I would like to go with you. Hell is one of them. I would be naked and you would lose the weight you’ve been worried about. It’s okay. We dream together in isolation. Maybe later we can visit the coast. The flowers are still blooming, and I would very much like to try being a hurricane with you. I will spin quickly, and you will be the eye, and we can dance until the ocean boils and we become too powerful. We can retreat to the mountains. We can become hermits. We can talk about saints and stones and swifts. We can not talk. We can breathe more easily when the rest of the world erases us. When the world ends, we will expect it. We will be asleep after a tender kiss.


"I AM A CATTERPILLAR"

An Atlas moth was found 
in Washington. It is dead now, 
but before, it was something else.
When everything grows too big to hold,
I become a cocoon. I dream of being 
a dress, a blanket, something for a body -
an orgasm, perhaps,
or a coffin. A chariot. A needle. A museum.
I am a framework,
open space, everyone else moves
within. A window. Whenever I am broken, I feel 
I’m on the cusp of something. The edge
of being myself. Someday
they will remove my scaffolding,
let me be nothing
but a collection of arches. A cathedral
held tightly in the shutter of a lover’s lens.


"TRAVELING, AS CURRENTS"

Most nights, I stand on the shore of the riverbank I inherited. I reconcile the sand and the roses, the smoothness of skulls and pebbles forever rolling down hill. I am on intimate terms with curves. I have lived with them forever. I sleep with them. I hold one, unused, delicately behind my teeth. I stare at the ground, the ripples, watch the moon in the movement. She knows curves more seductive than mine, more severe than the river. I want to be her, have the force to move the whole ocean. I am here to meet your shadow, to cradle this landscape together in our understanding arms. I want to make a circle. A circle is complete.

Beneath our perfume, the water whispers;
you meet my quivering with waves,
a steady pulse. Our kisses rustle away
into exile together.


"A PROMISE BETWEEN PHOSPHORUS DAUGHTER'S"

We stole your grandmother’s matchboxes, 
a stockpile large enough for another war. 
Red, white, and blue. You: testing each strike strip, 
dark or flare. Strike anywhere. 
Denim shorts. Lighting a flame with your teeth, 
putting out the fire with your mouth. 
A sweatshirt zipper. In the basement, we scraped 
phosphorus on phosphorus until every box was dead. 
Ash. No matter how wet the summer sky was, 
we were burnt. Here: butterflies. A memory. Smoke 
falling out of your red lips, you told me I could kiss you 
if I swallowed a flame. Flowers. I would have swallowed the sun. 
Please, anywhere. I couldn’t feel my mouth for a week.


"NOISE AGAIN"

The family is the cradle of the world’s misinformation. There must be something in family life that generates factual error. Over-closeness, the noise and heat of being. Perhaps even something deeper like the need to survive. Murray says we are fragile creatures surrounded by a world of hostile facts. Facts threaten our happiness and security. The deeper we delve into things, the looser our structure may seem to become. The family process works towards sealing off the world. Small errors grow heads, fictions proliferate. I tell Murray that ignorance and confusion can’t possibly be the driving forces behind family solidarity. What an idea, what a subversion. He asks me why the strongest family units exist in the least developed societies. Not to know is a weapon of survival, he says. Magic and superstition become entrenched as the powerful orthodoxy of the clan. The family is strongest where objective reality is most likely to be misinterpreted. 


"WHEN IN ROME"

Well I see you in the morning
Putting on your pretty clothes
And I watch you do your makeup
Like they do in all those fashion shows
Then you turn to me so that I can see
If you put your self together right
Then you go away and you’re gone all day
But I know you’re coming home tonight
And when you’re home, darling all you’ve got to be is you
But when in Rome, do as the Romans do

Well it’s alright if you’re tired when your day is done
You can see when you look at me, you’re not the only one
It’s a cold, cruel world for a working girl
But you can’t let them see you cry
It’s a fact of life, now a man and wife
Work full time to just get by
And when we’re home all it’s gonna be is me and you
But when in Rome, do as the Romans do

I’ve done some strange things I never thought I’d do before
But if the strain brings happiness, more or less…

Then I don’t mind masquerading with all those other fools
I don’t mind the games I’m playing,
Because I’ve learned the rules
And when times are tough, I’ve got just enough
If you’re standing right by my side
Darling more and more I get hungry for
All the ways you keep me satisfied
On our own there ain’t nothing that we can’t get thru
But when in Rome, do as the Romans do

Then I don’t mind masquerading with all those other fools
I don’t mind the games I’m playing,
Because I’ve learned the rules
It doesn’t matter when we’re home, all alone
All we’ve got to be is me and you
On our own there ain’t nothing that we can’t get thru
But when in Rome, do as the Romans do


"THIS IS FEROCITY"

I ask who I am, and she tells me. A woman who can be loved. A woman who loves in the face of so many extinctions. I am most full of love and endings. Sometimes, I feel like I might explode. I ask how my broken throat could ever be a machine for language, and she tells me. My words are more than slick tongue nestling in another mouth. My words are gatherers and hunters. My words are a celestial map to the softest awe. I am reconciling serendipity with divulgence. Sometimes, I pray to an empty sky to share a secret. I ask how to love a soul instead of the silken architecture of a body, and she tells me. Remember you are nothing but an assembly of waves. Remember you can wash away entire histories. Remember you are more afraid of drowning someone than drowning with them. I dream of engraving a future in the breath that escapes when I smile. Sometimes, I am already an echo. 

In the beginning
a woman held out her heart -
I am not finished expanding


"A FEELING SOMETHING LIKE DANDELION FLUFF"

Nothing is simple about you.
Many bluebirds and I are scattered and broken 
on the cold ground 
our bodies runes for you, letters like tea leaves.

I dream you blindfolded in the wind, 
following the very last sliver of light -
oh, that you might find my silence, 
feel its shape and maybe dance alone with it.

And yet, in this sparkling night I fear you’ll miss me
at the edge the daybreak, edge of the world,
where dreams end and chance begins,
trying to sing.

Will I spend forever wondering if the pull I feel  
is magnetism between souls?
If maybe you feel the same rush as soft as wingbeats
rising from the earth?

The birds and I compare polished stones, gems
we’ve found, none that compare to you.
How could I ever make a worthy gift
for you, who can walk on diamonds as light as a fox?

I will lay here in the weather 
eroding to fragments that might fit 
the setting of someone else’s complicated life - 
another nest.

I expect you
like I expect a spike in my pulse
drumming my meaning into the soil that connects us
a joyful piercing of the air in a shared breath.

When you reach out a hand
it will never be to caress me
but to play the uncertain strings of my uncertain soul,
maybe follow the worn threads to the meadow.


"IT'S A PRETTY DREAM ANYWAY"

Everyone is lonely, and everyone hates being alone. But
I’m not like them. I’ve never been so sure of anything. Maybe her,
maybe. I can’t look back on mistakes and fear mistakes to be made. 
Am I nervous? I am in love with the way the stars hide in the sunlight 
and silently bathe us at night. It’s the same sky, you know,
all old fashioned, dreaming a future full of soft memories. 
She pumps heat into my heart to make the heavens glow, I know,
unlikely, but it’s true. It’s a soft static between us. I hold the words
but can’t let them go. Gravity will follow us down into the river,
where we might find the rain we have so often lost from our eyes -
the rain wants finding the same way we do. That natural kind of love
to fill our hearts with butterflies. I wonder how they got there, I wonder 
if her hands are gentle enough to spin a cocoon with me,
I wonder if maybe, just maybe, I should try dying slower.


"THE SHADE OF THE SKY AT MIDNIGHT IS A MEMORY"

I can’t decide what I want to say. I am a shark unable to stop swimming through a bruise. I am broken and illuminated. I float between walls and walls and walls and walls. Brightness only ever taught me how to burn, to be seen, cast a shadow. Sunlight and breeze are flowing through the transom, in and out like breath is supposed to move when it belongs to someone else. The best love I have known came from dim, quiet spaces, where the world is blurred on the inside for days and days, like yesterday, maybe the day before. 

What would happen if I stopped 
dreaming? I can’t. There are still so many
kinds of blue, and words
I want to swallow
somewhere inside another person. 


"BEAUTY FAILS TO UNDERSTAND ITSELF"

Years ago, a girl I knew ripped your words out of one of her father’s books, so I could put them on my tongue. She knew when she desired something she had to take it. Your words, not mine. She was a theory in the sense that she made me believe in connection. Her lips were dust in a violent storm, rising toward the sky before being laid forever in the ground we all came from. Breathing is a brutality when it isn’t understood as a blessing. Saccharin and acid. This memory is a rainbow that is seen for a quarter of an hour and forgotten until the colors return after each greying of the world. My pulse beats to the rhythm of your original German, even with the paper lost and her body ash. I wear what remains of her face in my occasional smile.

Another shapeless rolling cloud
reminds me of you, Goethe. It is wind borne,
free, and before the day is done 
it will break apart. 


"ENERGY IS CALCULATED AGAINST THE RESISTANCE NEEDED TO CHANGE IT"

Can’t say I hope you’re doing fine, when I know things aren’t fine, that things are pain and the stars are calling and the sky still stays aloft as our insides break down. We share meltdowns and never an honest desire to get better, just find some peace until we greet the darkness or whatever comes after. We’re not sure, but for some reason we know that right now it’s mostly sympathy and survival instinct keeping our cells dividing while we decorate our cells and call them homes. Home is just a chemical reaction, the passing electricity of belonging that hides at the back end of a train of thought. I am trying to understand the rhythm pounding through my nerves. Oh. But look at those clouds. They look just like my trembling hands. 


"METAMATERIAL"

I slipped again last night. Or maybe the night before. Flesh and breath. I was reading about time reflections and the ways force and current can bend the unseen. I see myself in the function of a ray of light, all the dust in me unsettled every afternoon as I try to pour myself through a window. Sometimes an echo breaks off, running quickly in reverse. A little softer. A blind certainty. What am I even made of? I wonder if this is what ghosts are like. The air itself buckles when I breathe in the cotton darkness. I collapse sometimes, even when nobody is watching. It is a momentous occasion, feeling solid, even if I don’t recognize myself. 


"STATE OF GRACE"

There you go, slipping away into a state of grace
I know the look that comes across your face
It’s so familiar to me
Here I am, trying to keep you in my line of sight
I’m never certain that you read me right
Sometimes you don’t want to see
Here we are, both of us know we’re in love
But that isn’t always enough
I never could rise above it all, down I fall

But darling there you go, slipping away into a state of grace
Granted, this world is not a perfect place
Still it’s the world that I’m in
Here I am talking while you don’t hear a word I say
Knowing you’re watching me from far away
Somewhere that I’ve never been

Don’t you see, you lived a different life than me
It doesn’t mean you have to be afraid of how
We’re not the same, don’t leave me now

But darling there you go, slipping away

How can I get you to stay where you are
Keep you for going too far
Holding you here is so hard to do…

	
"I DREAM ON NIGHTS THE UNIVERSE SHIFTS"

In bed, awake in the dark hours, I think maybe I’m dying now. Maybe that’s enough reason to go home to the rocks and the salt breeze and the sunrise. But I’m not dying any more than I do every night, which is to say it’s happening, but the rate is steady. Like the rotation of the earth. Like watching the flesh of my chest vibrate with my pulse. Like a Polaroid developing itself. I wonder if some morning I might look and my feet will be gone, dissolving as I turn into a ghost. I have heard so many voices and I want to sing their refrains in return. I wonder if whatever energy remains when we die is capable of flight. Is being part of a murmuration something I can do instead of going to heaven? I wonder if whatever energy remains while we’re breathing is capable of healing. My chains will not rattle if my hands cannot hold them. What if love is more like a band-aid and I need to keep replacing it? What if I don’t want to? In the morning I will sing the same songs I always do, in my head, where I exist, running, out of time, in places I have never been and those my ashes have already been scattered at. 


"A VIOLENT NOISE"

If I'm beating every hand away
No one stays
I've got so cautious
And now I trip on every move I make
Let one play
To be that careless
With every kiss from a friend
With everything I pretend not to feel
Am I too high? Am I too proud?
Is the music too loud
For me to hear?
Now I go out
But every beat is a violent noise
Dries my eye
With every beat comes a violent noise
The melody sung
And I don't know the voice
Now I go out
But every beat is a violent noise
You've been staying out late
Trying your best to escape
I hope you find what you're looking for
Let a moment take place
Without running away
I hope you silence the noise
How could eyes this wide
Lose sight of a world outside?
I've looked away, cowardice
With every kiss from a friend
With everything I pretend not to feel
Am I too high? Am I too proud?
Is the music too loud
For me to hear?
Now I go out
But every beat is a violent noise
Dries my eye
With every beat comes a violent noise
The melody sung
And I don't know the voice
Now I go out
But every beat is a violent noise


"AN OBSERVATORY IN ROME WATCHES ME APPROACH THE SUN"

I am thinking about microgravity, spinning and orbits. I am still in bed, a tide, a current, rubbing circles around ten thousand nerve endings in my southern hemisphere. Remember drinking the Sea of Tranqulity through a telescope? You held my hand. The same one spinning me into oblivion. I’ve done this so many times. I wonder how many times I will do this before I die. I wonder if anyone else every thinks about my hands and they way they’ve been inside myself. We saw Saturn and it looked like the morning sky collapsed into a ball, a little like me having an orgasm. Tonight I will try to catch a comet with the telescope I bought my wife last Christmas - I will tell her about you and about how hard I came with you in my mind, but now how close I am to sublimating completely. 


"ATLANTIC GYRE, IN WINTER"

Suddenly, everything is piscean anxiety in months that have gone quiet. I am on the tile floor, again. 
A whisper now, I could be half in and hanging half out of the bath, thinking about loss and losing 
and how we should have been fish. Swimming toward home in wet feelings, heavy and salt laden, buoyantly familiar. The inside of a round bowl. The sand and stone circling the Atlantic. Walls in a bathroom where we’ve shut the door even though no one is home. Somewhere above the waterline, past air we could never breathe, is a sun we will never touch. It will never touch us, only show itself part of each day, bright curtains in a dark, shifting thermocline, where we can imagine happiness and then forget about it.


"THE FIRST THING I DO EVERY DAY IS BORROW GOLD"

I slip in and out of the dawn, catch brief frames:
my wife putting on makeup, a cup of tea
deposited between blinks, a weather girl
I don’t recognize smiling about the oncoming cold,
a closed door, breeze whistling through 
a cracked window, the smell of decay
calling me outside to see, already, something new. 

I watch Jupiter vanish into the morning blue
before it dips below the horizon. Think 
for a moment, about you, and death, 
and fading. Get up and walk slowly back to bed. 
The sky is still clear when I wake up, 
and the lonely airplanes look like comets.


"WE PUT FOOD IN THE FREEZER TO SLOW THE ATOMS"

I run hot. When I dance I feel questions hatch across my skin. Every limb of my body angles toward the crematorium. Will I leave a crater inside of anyone? Will it smell like fireworks? I am drawing circles inside the excited tangle of my own breast. What will happen to the waveforms I’ve collected? What has happened to all the other waveforms I’ve been? I’ve been ready to embark on the ocean since birth. Do I have to wait my whole life? Every breath is a taste of wings knocked into my lungs. What does that holy air become if I never speak? Am I fermenting my last words? When I collapse on the cold bathroom tile, I wonder if this is what I will look like when I die. I hold my phone like a Bible, text my wife to pick up my waiting prescriptions, watch videos of icebergs turning over to calm myself down.


"HOLOGRAPHS"

I am dreaming of times that didn’t 
happen. When we met in the woods as children
and said nothing. When we went back
to the same house after a party
we didn’t belong at. The first time
we touched, acknowledging distance
and electricity. When we were water 
together before we evaporated. We were
always the same cloud, always wanting
to kiss the earth and be buried
inside each other. When we danced 
in the living room and when we mouthed
more than each other’s names. When we said 
out loud we probably don’t exist. But here I am. 


"ALL AROUND IS PASSING"

These paintings were to be his passport to a more luminous world, not encumbered by our nouns and adjectives, our interpretations which always fall short. Dore Ashton Passport photograph, signature, official stamp. Harmless blue, nothing blue, lost in the bottom of the bag blue. Encrypted, entombed, the vault of who you are. With a word or a dab of paint you can make your way, trans form, overstep, trans gress, slip on those red stilettos, take on your father’s boots. Trans—out there on the other side, your body raveling through itself or another is giving birth is leaving something behind. Chimera, other-gift, as in. Trans—moving between. A cross-bar, beam. An OM for the work. Landscape altarpiece: your skull a chapel, bones a church. Late becomes slow last song last words brush the hinge between worlds. Lucent, paint-washed, pigment barely attached. To ignite a soul-flame. To impale with amazement. Cliff-contour, ghost-look. Transcend, Transient. Transit. A flock of leaves blows up from the ground. They speak they blacken into birds.


"IN THE OCEAN SHE WEARS"

Found pride
adrift in the ocean
Body now a citizen
Of a world ignorant to
Border and binaries
Empowering a body
That rejected a binary
Found pride
In ribbons of a mesmerising sunset
Curled around trees
Dreamt of once forbidden loves
That had marvelled together
Over a similar scene
One day I’ll share such a moment
With a person
They told us we were unnatural
But what’s unnatural is this machine
That governs this social ecosystem
Demanding we love in certain ways
Act in certain ways
I found pride in the ocean
Because it contains
Multitudes
Like we all do


"THIS IS NOT A LOVE POEM"

A pile of dead bees collecting in the corner of the windowsill. The sun dropping low in the sky so early now in evening. Remembering a white horse named Guardian Angel. Listening to a telemarketer from the Midwest quoting the book of Job. Setting fire to a pile of old letters in the bathroom sink. Nightmares where all my teeth are falling out at once. A cardinal repeatedly flying into the kitchen window. The feeling that I’ve been unknowingly anesthetized in my sleep. Needing a username and password to access what I’m thinking. All my attempts at getting closer to God being ruined by my cynicism. This heavy veil of despair over everything reminding me of your absence.


"SHAVING"

I catch my legs like I catch my breath -
sharp, on the sofa. I am satin
beneath a forest. I am 
mapping the spaces between
settling dust and sunbeams
flowing under an afternoon shadow. 

The water runs. It always does, 
when the tap is turned 
and the world is spinning.

I come, an empty flower, to the ocean.
A hollow to float or fill. I don’t know
for certain. I believe
floating is something the dead do
when souls are no longer
connected to architecture.

I am here to smooth things out.
A razor rests more easily 
on a porcelain edge
than an inhale rests against its steel.

I am wading. The waves hold me
more gently than a priest palms an infant. 
I slide open-eyed beneath the surface. 
I am waiting to be crushed,
to let my substance expand. 

The words I am not speaking
circle the drain 
like they circle my teeth. They are just gone,
the way I imagine souls depart. Sliding
smoothly over everything.


"MY STUPID MOUTH"

Here comes the cold Break out the winter clothes And find a love to call your own You, enter you Your cheeks a shade of pink And the rest of you in powder blue Who knows what will be But I'll make you this guarantee No way November will see our goodbye When it comes to December it's obvious why No one wants to be alone at Christmas time In the dark, on the phone You tell me the names of your brothers And your favorite colors I'm learning you And when it snows again We'll take a walk outside And search the sky Like children do No way November will see our goodbye When it comes to December it's obvious why No one wants to be alone at Christmas time And come January, we're frozen inside Making new resolutions a hundred times February, won't you be my valentine? And we'll both be safe 'til St. Patrrick's Day We should take a ride tonight around the town And look around at all the beautiful houses Something in the way that blue lights on a black night Can make you feel more Everybody, it seems to me, just wants to be Just like you and me No one wants to be alone at Christmas time Come January, we're frozen inside Making new resolutions a hundred times February, won't you be my valentine? And if our always is all that we gave And we someday take that away I'll be alright, if it was just 'til St. Patrick's Day


"BLISS"

I watch the snow outside the window
slowly drift into the ground
there is no talk, no conversation
it’s winter love without a sound

chorus: I won’t change a thing
‘bout the way you talk or how I sing
la-dee-da-de-da-da
I won’t change a thing

I walk out into the weather
my footprints and my fingers freeze
it’s almost like we were together
no need to rewrite history

and there is some bliss in forgetting
but there’s more in letting go
and there are some things I don’t want
to regret so I thought I should let you know

I don’t have a perfect voice
but when I can’t talk I sing
and even if I had a choice
I wouldn’t change a thing


"MENTAL EXERCISES FOR HUMANS"

1

Dip your body in snow cold water. Do not bandage your knees. Ingest the petals of a pink rose and eight pine needles one by one. Make sure you stand near moss. Make sure the wild rose bush is not sick with rust. 

2

Go to the forest. Eat worms off the ground. Stack stones to find your way. Walk until your feet become calloused. Swim in a mirror blue lake as it rains. 

3

Journey to the cratered scablands and search for a tortoise until a nearby automobile slides on the asphalt. Go home and prepare a song about the experience. Include the following phrases: naked house, purgatorial sighs, seraphic jaw, clovis fauna, saltless galaxy, bedroom logorea, shiver didactics, cicada citadel, nonsense bureaucracy. Study interdimensional trade agreements. Move to the nearest window and study refractions of light. Go on go on go on.

4

Discover a cave but do not enter (you are not ready). Make inappropriate jokes to your neighbor. If they shun you, isolate yourself for fourteen days. Don’t worry about the solstice; it’ll come again. When finished, wipe away the salt from your eyes and sit silently for thirty to forty minutes, depending on elevation (time moves more quickly at sea level). When finished, treat yourself to an analog puzzle. 

5

Obtain a mathematics textbook (don’t worry, there will be no test). Have two children. In your will, bequeath the textbook to the youngest child. Include with it a statement concerning the long history of this textbook: it has been in the family for generations, and you wish for it to continue with the family for as long as they exist on this earth. Add embellishments to this story; make it your own. Meanwhile, hide within the textbook a notecard with a list of dates: this is a list of every single day you had a pleasing sexual encounter, but they don’t need to know that.

6

Turn surgical tools into jewelry and invent an imaginary friend named Sharon. You do not necessarily always get along with Sharon.

7

Remember a tragic event. Think about never speaking another word again. Now, go on the run from the law, but casually.

8

Find a coffee shop that is open after 10 pm. Go there for at least two hours, as late in the night as possible. Sit near a window, as far away from the cashier as possible. Using a pencil and notepad, invent a new language. Later, teach your loved-ones this new language, and insist on communicating only in this new language.

9

Write down all of your secrets. Write them with a pen you adore on paper you can live without. Journey to an undisclosed location, difficult to find. Bring a matchbook with nine matches. Burn your secrets. Return home. Begin creating more secrets. In a year's time, repeat the process. Continue until death.

10

Reminisce about bygone school days. If you are still in school, burn this text and shit on the ashes. You are not ready. 

11

At your local library, find a best-selling novel about oceanography, and read it. It must be a work of fiction and it must be about oceanography and it must have been at least #50 on the New York Times Bestseller list. If you can find no such book, write it.

12

Boil water. Pour it into a ravine. Pray for the beetles below. If a wasp lands next to you within 48 hours, repeat the process. If no such thing occurs, research the neurological activities of wasps and compose a brief hand-written summary about why, in your assessment, no wasp landed next to you within the last 48 hours. Boil water and pour boiling water over the pages of the essay. Wait for the papers to cool (this should only take a few seconds) and then wad them into as small of a ball as possible. Wait.

13

Change your name so that you have no name; or, change your name so that your name is the sound a pebble makes when it is chucked into the ocean.

14

Hang a dripping washcloth in the freezer. Place a photograph of your enemy below the dripping washcloth and allow the drips to land on the face of your enemy. Count to nine hundred. Think of the color green: its hue, its connotations, its attributes, its atmosphere. Spend the next two hours constructing a riddle that unites the color green with a washcloth dripping in the freezer. Don’t tell it to anyone; don’t even speak it aloud. Take the now frozen washcloth from the freezer. Take the photograph as well. Write the riddle on the back of the photograph, then bury it in a nearby field. You have now forgiven your enemy. 

15

Make elaborate and detailed plans for a party, just on paper, including contact information for any outside organizations or individuals that you have have to hire or work with (such as djs, caterers, chefs, ice sculptors, musicians, florists, glitter suppliers, city officials, sword swallowers, actors paid to stand still and wear masks, etc). Now you’ll have this in your back pocket, ready to go, if the case ever arrives, and people will be very impressed at how prepared you are.


16

Stop. Turn off all the lights and appliances, all the computers and gadgets. Unplug everything that isn’t actively keeping you alive. Sit in as much darkness as possible, on the floor, in silence (or the closest approximation possible). Remain this way for 15 to 240 minutes. Repeat every 24 hours.

17

Do something easy, like nothing.


"WATER"

The world turns softly
Not to spill its lakes and rivers.
The water is held in its arms
And the sky is held in the water.
What is water,
That pours silver,
And can hold the sky?


"EXPIRATION DATES"

I could do a small bit of damage to my body today, and leave it at that. But a wind gust shakes the leaves from a crew of skinny trees, and a deck of cards flutters down, all spades. Half this town is slapping around in the damp with their mutts. A ruthless bichon frisée makes small cuts across the short-shaved grass. It’s later now, and this whole business—my situation, this sticky night—sags in a relentless sweat. Neighbours are close and unsavoury, and I’m thinking about expiration dates and that murderer on death row tonight, eating his last meal of fried chicken—and how that chicken also had a last meal. The fact that maggots are babies after all, whose cuteness we deny. What can be fished from below the darkness but more darkness?


"A VISIT"

Gone are the days
when you could walk on water.
When you could walk.

The days are gone.
Only one day remains,
the one you’re in.

The memory is no friend.
It can only tell you
what you no longer have:

a left hand you can use,
two feet that walk.
All the brain’s gadgets.

Hello, hello.
The one hand that still works
grips, won’t let go.

That is not a train.
There is no cricket.
Let’s not panic.

Let’s talk about axes,
which kinds are good,
the many names of wood.

This is how to build
a house, a boat, a tent.
No use; the toolbox

refuses to reveal its verbs;
the rasp, the plane, the awl,
revert to sullen metal.

Do you recognize anything? I said.
Anything familiar?
Yes, you said. The bed.

Better to watch the stream
that flows across the floor
and is made of sunlight,

the forest made of shadows;
better to watch the fireplace
which is now a beach.


"THE TIME I SAW SOMEONE'S CHILDHOOD WITHOUT THEM KNOWING"

She slid her hand across the air, gestured at the table saying, “This is where it all goes down.” A long antique table. Two silver candlesticks, a tall white candle in each, burning whether we were there or not. They didn’t have much, considering who they were. In the sunken living room, a love seat, with a white sheet over it, and a stereo on the floor with a stack of vinyl records leaning against the wall. A small painting she’d done of two trees leaning against each other. She told me who they represented, and there was a note of secrecy in it. He said I reminded him of one of Leonard Cohen’s backup singers. Her and I smoked a whole pack of cigarettes, there at the table. She had one bare foot hiked up on her chair. Hugged her knee with her smoking hand. There was Indian food and too much wine. Our men compared broken childhoods. I wore long beads that night. An eight-year-old girl asleep on the loveseat, my future teaching colleague, the smoke circling her hip like a halo.


"BALLAD OF BIG NOTHING"

Throwing candy out to the crowd
Dragging down the main
The helpless little thing with the dirty mouth
Who's always got something to say
You're sitting around at home now waiting for your brother to call
I saw him down in the alley
Having had enough of it all
Said you can do what you want to whenever you want to
You can do what you want to there's no one to stop you
All spit and spite you're up all night and down every day
A tired man with only hours to go just waiting to be taken away
Getting into the back of a car for candy from some stranger
Watching the parade with pinpoint eyes full of smoldering anger
You can do what you want to whenever you want to
You can do what you want to there's no one to stop you


"SATELLITE"

Satellite in my eyes
Like a diamond in the sky
How I wonder
Satellite strung from the moon
And the world your balloon
Peeping Tom for the mother station

Winter's cold spring erases
And the calm away by the storm is chasen
Everything good needs replacing
Look up, look down
All around
Hey, satellite

Satellite headlines read
Someone's secrets you've seen
Eyes and ears have been
Satellite dish in my yard
Tell me more, tell me more
Who's the king of your satellite castle?

Winter's cold spring erases
And the calm away by the storm is chasen
Everything good needs replacing
Look up, look down
All around
Hey, satellite

Rest high above the clouds. No restriction
Television we bounce 'round the world
And while I spend these hours
Five senses reeling
I laugh about this weatherman's satellite eyes

Satellite in my eyes
Like a diamond in the sky
How I wonder
Satellite strung from the moon
And the world your balloon
Peeping Tom for the mother station

Winter's cold spring erases
And the calm away by the storm is chasen
Everything good needs replacing
Look up, look down
All around
Hey, satellite


"LEVITY"

I read a book that was written in the 13th century. A man said there was five steps toward making amends.
The first involved acknowledging what you did. The second involved remorse. The third involved making right with your neighbor. Like if you stole his chicken, you'd have to go and bring him another. Only then were you able to go to step four, which was making it right with God. But it wasn't until step five that you could really get redeemed. It had to do with being in the same place, in the same situation. That as it goes, you'd go and do something different. Which is why, for me, I know I'll never be redeemed.


“WIND”

Since all suffering comes
from having a self, today I will be glockenspiel.

Today I will be tide pool.

Today I will be a feather flown loose from a bird.

It will take me a long time to touch ground.

I will simply decorate the wind.


"IN SEARCH OF LOST TIME"

Dreams are not to be converted into reality, that we know; we would not form any, perhaps, were it not for desire, and it is useful to us to form them in order to see them fail and to be instructed by their failure. An artist has no need to express his mind directly in his work for it to express the quality of that mind; it has indeed been said that the highest praise of God consists in the denial of Him by the atheist, who finds creation so perfect that it can dispense with a creator. It is false to believe that the scale of fears corresponds to that of the dangers which inspire them. One might be frightened of sleeplessness and yet not of a duel, of a rat and not of a lion. The universe is true for us all and dissimilar to each of us. If we were not obliged, to preserve the continuity of our story, to confine ourselves to frivolous reasons, how many more serious reasons would permit us to demonstrate the falsehood and flimsiness of the opening pages of this volume in which, from my bed, I hear the world awake, now to one sort of weather, now to another. Yes, I have been forced to whittle down the facts, and to be a liar, but it is not one universe, there are millions, almost as many as the number of human eyes and brains in existence, that awake every morning. What we feel is the only thing that exists for us, and we project it into the past, into the future, without letting ourselves be stopped by the fictitious barriers of death.


“DOORS”

They say when god closes a door, she opens a window and crawls through.
One time, I found her sitting in my kitchen looking hungry.
I fed her Cheetos and a sliced cucumber, the only offerings I had, and she cried over the state of the earth and my sad little home.
She stood to go, wiping Cheeto dust on an impeccable gown made of moonlight.
I loved her like a daughter then.


"ON EARTH LATELY"

Seems bubbly, like my anxiety, a caldron overflowing but I can’t find the recipe, what if we
drink the tonic or the punch or the soup anyway it could be for transformation, or epiphany like
reaching the Fountain of Youth, a pub in London not so long ago the only place with cheap
pints and sweaty palms and dewy eyes and feeling some kind of way like the morning after
when I met the tiger in my bed and she was fierce as fuck the night before but sleeping like a
kitten now, we only ever sort of know who we invite to our pillow or let out our back door and
into the garden of Eden of ebb/flow of earthly delights like ice cream melting on a hot day,
who’s to say how it all is right now?
	

“SOME GODS”

Some gods,
from seeing the human world,
cry their eyes out into a milk-white soup. 

Then they take root
and ripen under a new moon.

Dreaming seeds of another world, dreaming strong roots into its being.

When we wake, there is only this one world, the one the going to tears.


“FALL APART”

It's so easy for things to fall apart.
So hard to put them back together again.
In another world, all of life moves toward order.
Bodies begin
as scatterings of light, dust, breath, and ooze.
They merge into pillars of sense, invincible rays of being.
In another world, I love you because you're permanent.
In this one, I'm born waving goodbye with my whole heart.


“TAPESTRY”

This one time, the entire world came into being.
There were no humans around to find anything wrong with it.
It went on and on that way.
To think, after so much nothingness,
there was finally something.

Wow.

Late on, a flurry of undeniable miracles happened.
The creation of picnic baskets.
The first hummingbirds, born from the mouths of foxglove flowers.
The discovery of snowflakes shaped like perfect snowflakes.
The more life there was, the greater the density of miracles.

Until finally,
there were so many that they became invisible, woven seamlessly into the tapestry of everything.


“NURTURE”

An eight-year-old asks me what nature is. The question fills me with grief. And because I don't know the answer, I say rivers and animals and forests. I don't say athlete's foot or cheeseburgers or corn mazes. I don't say the time I saw a mosquito riding a little brown frog across a mossy creek, or the tick I plucked from my stomach last summer and kept in the freezer behind the creamsicles. She asks if dogs are nature. say what do you think.

There are bars on the elementary school windows to keep the children in. That afternoon, they let us out for an active shooter drill, the whole school wrapped around the block like ants. The air is warm and clear, a few green buds cracking open the sleeping trees. The children are so happy, dragging their useless winter coats along the sidewalk. Don't run, I say, so they skip, their knees high. All these living children. Why are you crying? they ask me. I'm not crying.


"ALL THE LITTLE DOTS"

we could blaze a trail,
and burn each other's bridges,
as we watch our steps
avoiding nails in our feet.
we deserve a rest sleeping under indian moons;
anyway, let's blow this joint.
tripping over dancing shoes in silence.

but the yellow-brick road is faded and worn,
the golden rule's no more than brass;
both: broken and sold second-hand 
to the pawn-shopping king lying naked in the gutter.

stick the pin anywhere,
on the map or in my fingers even;
i'll leave a trail of blood 
for you to follow if you want to later:
all the little dots,
and every one a new direction
your heart can follow
with only physical laws to obey.

go on and take a stab;
we've felt enough for now.


"MY OWN SOUL'S WARNING"

I tried going against my own soul's warning
But in the end, something just didn't feel right
Oh, I tried diving even though the sky was storming
I just wanted to get back to where you are

If you could see through the banner of the sun
Into eternity's eyes like a vision reaching down to you
Would you turn away?
What if it knew you by your name?
What kind of words would cut through
The clutter of the whirlwind of these days?

I tried going against my own soul's warning
And in the end, something just didn't feel right
Oh, I tried diving even though the sky was storming
Thunderheads were forming
But man I thought I could fly
And when I hit the ground
It made a messed up sound and it kept on rattling through my days
Cutting up my nights like a goddamned knife
And it got me thinking no matter how far
That I just wanted to get back to where you are

I tried going against my own soul's warning
But in the end, something just didn't feel right
Oh, I tried running from the memory and the mourning
But the penalty kept on pouring
And now I think I know why
'Cause when I hit the ground
It made a messed up sound and it kept on rattling through my days
Cutting up my nights like a goddamned knife
And it got me thinking no matter how far
I just wanted to get back to where you are


“THE LANGUAGE OF ANTS”

In the future, there will be an ear for every sound.

We'll finally be able to take it all in - all the noise and talk and music of the world. An ear for sorrow, an ear for joy, an ear for half-baked plans, an ear for dreams. Our faces will be all ears. Our hair will be all ears. Ears will sprout from the backs of our hands. The soles of our feet will grow ears for the earth [language of ants / wormy pink whoosh / warm mycelial tingle]. Our knees will grow ears for the oceans [ruminations of sea cucumbers / long coral sighs / shrill panic of sardines]. From our belly buttons, two ears will sprout in the shapes of moths.

They won't flap like wings or anything - that would be weird. These will be our ears for grief: one tuned to what we've already lost, the other tuned to what there's yet to lose. In the future, how will we carry on in the space between? How will we bear it?


“ON PAIN”

They could've made the mysteries painless, Death and all that.
Could've told us everything.

Whispered in one human ear:
"You become leaves, crunch crunch."

Whispered: "God is an earthworm."

Whispered: "God is rats, that's
why
He can chew
through anything."

Could've made the mysteries painless.


"SEYMOUR AND THE ROOFBEAMS"

I'm a kind of paranoiac in reverse. I suspect people of plotting to make me happy. I have scars on my hands from touching certain people. Certain heads, certain colours and textures of human hair leave permanent marks on me. Keep me up till five because all your stars are out, and for no other reason…Oh dare to do it Buddy! Trust your heart. You’re a deserving craftsman. It would never betray you. Good night. I’m feeling very much over-excited now, and a little dramatic, but I think I’d give almost anything on earth to see you writing a something, an anything, a poem, a tree, that was really and truly after your own heart. My atoms, moreover, are arranged to make me constitutionally inclined to believe that where there's smoke there's usually strawberry Jello, seldom fire.


“SEVEN LABYRINTHS”

The first labyrinth is the labyrinth of sadness.

The second is the labyrinth of I love you, don't ever speak to me again.

The third is a corn maze, the sun setting, the sky dizzy with bats.

The fourth is how do you remember that you are holy? What if the pain in your body never ends?

What if you never even find out what to call it?

The fifth is a maze by rats for rats - and the prize is the friends you make along the way!

The sixth is I hate to say it but the sadness has found you again. You are underground. Your body is a tunnel. You are sick as hell. The pain has no beginning and the pain has no end.

The seventh is children running through the hedges, laughing. Someone has lost a shoe. 
Someone has found their way again
to me.


"ON BALANCE"

Anyone can achieve their fullest potential, who we are might be predetermined, but the path we follow is always of our own choosing. We should never allow our fears or the expectations of others to set the frontiers of our destiny. Your destiny can't be changed but, it can be challenged. Every man is born as many men and dies as a single one. If I take death into my life, acknowledge it, and face it squarely, I will free myself from the anxiety of death and the pettiness of life - and only then will I be free to become myself. 


“FOR EXAMPLE: A FLOWER”

We are protected from so much pain. For example: graves.

The earth's roots and brown-black blood are busy covering the soft, violated bodies of our loves.

Death is a secret, and the rain with its many hands washes off the streets to the gutters death's thick surprise.

The automatic shutter of the eye never fails,
the courtesies of the tongue. What goes on in the rooms of houses is guarded from us by the hardwood doors,
the carefully closed windows. Whatever was said or done, night will come, eagerly, to clean up.

And death will shield us, in time, from the sun's megalithic promise:
Tomorrow, the same day.
Tomorrow, the same day.

For example: A flower is the most beautiful lie.


“WHEN I GO TO BED WITH THE LIGHTS ON”

Every morning I look up at the moon and I think You are a kiddie-pool and I will drown in you.
I think about field trips and cold cuts.
I think about dividends and other words I don't understand. I make five hundred lunches in advance. I want to be prepared.
I want new shoes. I want them to be waterproof and unforgettable. I want the kind of resume that takes home all the prizes and a salary commensurate with thunderstorms. I want to believe that there are people in this world whose lives are the size of houses and their bills are paid on time and when they see birds in the sky they think that's a nice thing to see. In my free time I clip coupons and put them in my wallet where I forget to redeem them and this gnaws at me day in and day out and when I close my eyes I can feel my heart and it is trembling.


"MOOD RING"

I'm tryna blow bubbles, but inside
Can't seem to fix my mood
Today it's as dark as my roots
If I, if I ever let them grow out (ah-ah)
Now all of my oceans have riptides
Can't seem to find what's wrong
The whole world is letting me down
Don't you think the early 2000s seem so far away? (Ay-ay-ay-ay)
Ladies, begin your sun salutations
Transcendental in your meditations (love and light)
You can burn sage, and I'll cleanse the crystals
We can get high, but only if the wind blows (blows just right)
I can't feel a thing
I keep looking at my mood ring
Tell me how I'm feeling
Floating away, floating away
I'm tryna get well from the inside
Plants and celebrity news, all the vitamins I consume
Let's fly somewhere eastern, they'll have what I need (they'll have what I need)
Let's go
Ladies, begin your sun salutations
Pluto in Scorpio generation (love and light)
You can burn sage, and I'll cleanse the crystals
We can get high, but only if the wind blows (blows just right, ri-ri-ri-right)
I can't feel a thing
I keep looking at my mood ring
Tell me how I'm feeling
Floating away, floating away
All the sad girls sing
We'll keep dancing 'til the mood rings
Tell us how we're feeling
We're floating away, floating away
Take me to some kinda
Take me to some kinda
Take me to some kinda place (anywhere)
Watch the sun set, look back on my life (take me to some kinda)
I just wanna know, will it be alright? (Take me to some kinda)
Take me to some kinda place (anywhere)


“ORDINARY THINGS”

It is a kind of love, is it not?
How the cup holds the tea,
How the chair stands sturdy and foursquare, How the floor receives the bottoms of shoes Or toes. How soles of feet know Where they're supposed to be.
I've been thinking about the patience Of ordinary things, how clothes Wait respectfully in closets And soap dries quietly in the dish, And towels drink the wet From the skin of the back.
And the lovely repetition of stairs.
And what is more generous than a window?


"PAPER CHILD"

I took the whole world into my own hands
and discovered my mother 
couldn't do the same.
I dream of going back 
to school for something I didn't know existed,
for someone to ask me this question:

How does knowing that my mother is gone
mean I can still teach you how to sew,
cook an heirloom sauce,
have an obsession with history?


“ANOTHER ATTEMPT TO SAY GOODBYE, 20 YEARS ON”

Everybody says you should be dead. It isn't like that – 
it's not like that. When we think about death, we don't think 
about the things that have happened before 
and won't happen anymore. We think about everything
that never happened and about those things that don't really fit 
with who we were and who we are today. Somehow alive. We think 
of all the things that we can do to make us forget. 

We think about how bad going through hell is, 
and how it will make you more like a saint. We were never saints,
we just thought about things that were far-fetched, 
and the things we weren’t sure existed:
you meat a demon in the cemetery in your childhood,
with some memory of you from the past, some betrayal
gone without atonement. 

The paranoia of a goddess gone mad dropping out of your mouth
when you sang: we could go on forever and never come back, 
it’s trying to swallow us whole, I’m going to keep myself
somewhere else. Dressed like a red rose petal. Black heart,
the color of every suit and dress of all those people 
who think they don’t have anything in common. 
But we’re all the same:
suffering. 

You said you wanted to run away from home 
one night in your basement. You said
you were in love with a sailor,
but you worried he wouldn’t love you back
because he was imaginary. What it would mean 
to be a human being without a compass? You already knew,
and I suppose I did, too. I just didn’t recognize
the situation over the silences in our lives. You said
you didn't know how to be loud enough
for a sailor to hear you in the middle of the ocean. What if
he forgot you. So you made a video of yourself,
dressed in pinstripes, so very blue, 
drawn on mustache, telling yourself the things you wanted to hear:
you’re not really a person, you’re an angel
you’re the kind of person I want to see when I come home
you’re funny, especially when you don’t believe in yourself
you’re someone, you know, who thinks they shouldn’t exist
but somehow manages to continue doing it
you should continue doing it. 

You should have.


"STANDARD LINES"

Which of the bold faced lies will we use?
I hope that you're happy, you really deserve it,
This will be the best for us both in the end.
Which of the standard lines will we use?
I've been meaning to call you, I've just been so busy.
We'll catch up soon.
Let's make it a point to.
But your taste still lingers on my lips
Like I just placed them upon yours
And I starve, I starve for you.
But this new diet's liquid
And dulling to the senses.
And it's crude but it will do. 


"STRANGER"

When earth is sundered, and skies choked black,
And sleepers serve the seven curses,
To the hearth there comes a stranger,
Journeyed far 'neath moon and star.

Though stark-born to sire uncertain,
His aspect marks his certain fate.
Wicked stalk him, righteous curse him.
Prophets speak, but all deny.

Many trials make manifest
The stranger's fate, the curses' bane.
Many touchstones try the stranger.
Many fall, but one remains.


"TINY CITIES MADE OF ASHES"

We're goin' down the road towards tiny cities made of ashes
Gonna hit you on the face gonna punch you in your
Glasses, oh no!
I just got a message that said "Yeah hell is freezin' over"
I Got a phone call from the Lord sayin' "Hey boy get a
Sweater. Right now"
So we're drinkin' drinkin' drinkin' drinkin' coca-coca-cola
I can feel it rollin' right on down
Oh right on down my throat
And as we're headed down the road towards tiny cities
Made of ashes
I'm gonna get dressed up in plastic gonna shake hands
With the masses, oh no!
Does anybody know a way that a body could get away
Does anybody know a way
Were goin' down the road towards tiny cities made of ashes
I'm goin' to hit you on the face I'm goin' to punch you in your
Glasses, oh no!
I'm wearin' myself a t-shirt that says "The world is my ashtray"
Our hearts pump dust and our hairs all gray
And I just got a message sayin' that hell has frozen over
Got a phone call from the Lord sayin' "Hey boy get a
Sweater. Right now!"
Does anybody know a way that a body could get away
Does anybody know a way
Were drinkin' drinkin' drinkin' drinkin' coca-coca-cola
I can feel it rollin' right on down oh right on down my throat
And as we're headed down the road towards tiny cities
Made of ashes
I'm gonna lay down in the spa where they coat you
In molasses, oh no!
Does anybody know a way that a body could get away
Does anybody know a way


“DRAGONFLIES”

Millions of years ago, there were no winged creatures.

We all crawled around on our bellies and paws to arrive.

We arrived nowhere in particular, but the rough ground coarsened our bellies and our paws stretched out like mountains.

Every time we stopped in the shade of a tree, one of us would shout: "Here we are!" A fantasy mightier than mountains.

Millions of years ago, dragonflies emerged from
narrow streams.

The water was heavy on their backs, like a tightening in the chest, so they asked creation for wings,
that they might perceive anguish as clearly as stones on the riverbed.

Since then, we all fly,
millions of wings and planes cloud the sky, humming like hungry locusts.
But not one of us has asked creation to deliver us from the fantasy of arrival.
In our chests, the same tightening.
